The  Clover's simple  Fame Remembered of the  Cow -  Is better than enameled  Realms Of notability. Renown perceives itself And that degrades the  Flower -  The  Daisy that has looked behind Has compromised its power -
 Pigmy seraphs—gone astray— Velvet people from  Vevay— Balles from some lost summer day— Bees exclusive  Coterie— Paris could not lay the fold Belted down with  Emerald— Venice could not show a check Of a tint so lustrous meek— Never such an  Ambuscade As of briar and leaf displayed For my little damask maid— I had rather wear her grace Than an  Earl's distinguished face— I had rather dwell like her Than be " Duke of  Exeter"— Royalty enough for me To subdue the  Bumblebee.
 The  Hollows round  His eager  Eyes Were  Pages where to read Pathetic  Histories—although Himself had not complained. Biography to  All who passed Of  Unobtrusive  Pain Except for the italic  Face Endured, unhelped—unknown.
 This is a  Blossom of the  Brain— A small—italic  Seed Lodged by  Design or  Happening The  Spirit fructified— Shy as the  Wind of his  Chambers Swift as a  Freshet's  Tongue So of the  Flower of the  Soul Its process is unknown. When it is found, a few rejoice The  Wise convey it  Home Carefully cherishing the spot If other  Flower become. When it is lost, that  Day shall be The  Funeral of  God, Upon his  Breast, a closing  Soul The  Flower of our  Lord.
 So the  Eyes accost—and sunder In an  Audience— Stamped—occasionally—forever— So may  Countenance Entertain—without addressing Countenance of  One In a  Neighboring  Horizon— Gone—as soon as known—
The butterfly obtains But little sympathy Though favorably mentioned In  Entomology -  Because he travels freely And wears a proper coat The circumspect are certain That he is dissolute -  Had he the homely scutcheon Of modest  Industry' Twere fitter certifying For  Immortality -
 Must be a  Woe— A loss or so— To bend the eye Best  Beauty's way— But—once aslant It notes  Delight As difficult As  Stalactite A  Common  Bliss Were had for less— The price—is Even as the  Grace— Our lord—thought no Extravagance To pay—a  Cross—
Growth of  Man -  like  Growth of  Nature -  Gravitates within -  Atmosphere, and  Sun endorse it -  Bit it stir -  alone -  Each -  its difficult  Ideal Must achieve -   Itself -  Through the solitary prowess Of a  Silent  Life -  Effort -  is the sole condition -  Patience of  Itself -  Patience of opposing forces -  And intact  Belief -  Looking on -  is the  Department Of its  Audience -  But  Transaction -  is assisted By no  Countenance -
Speech is one symptom of  Affection And  Silence one -  The perfectest communication Is heard of none -  Exists and its indorsement Is had within -  Behold, said the  Apostle, Yet had not seen!
 The  Night was wide, and furnished scant With but a single  Star— That often as a  Cloud it met— Blew out itself—for fear— The  Wind pursued the little  Bush— And drove away the  Leaves November left—then clambered up And fretted in the  Eaves— No  Squirrel went abroad— A  Dog's belated feet Like intermittent  Plush, he heard Adown the empty  Street— To feel if  Blinds be fast— And closer to the fire— Her little  Rocking  Chair to draw— And shiver for the  Poor— The  Housewife's gentle  Task— How pleasanter—said she Unto the  Sofa opposite— The  Sleet—than  May, no  Thee—
 When we stand on the tops of  Things— And like the  Trees, look down— The smoke all cleared away from it— And  Mirrors on the scene— Just laying light—no soul will wink Except it have the flaw— The  Sound ones, like the  Hills—shall stand— No  Lighting, scares away— The  Perfect, nowhere be afraid— They bear their dauntless  Heads, Where others, dare not go at  Noon, Protected by their deeds— The  Stars dare shine occasionally Upon a spotted  World— And  Suns, go surer, for their  Proof, As if an  Axle, held—
In snow thou comest -  Thou shalt go with the resuming ground, The sweet derision of the crow, And  Glee's advancing sound. In fear thou comest -  Thou shalt go at such a gait of joy That man anew embark to live Upon the depth of thee.
D E A R  March, come in!	 How glad  I am!	 I looked for you before.	 Put down your hat—	 You must have walked—	        How out of breath you are!	 Dear  March, how are you?	 And the rest?	 Did you leave  Nature well?	 Oh,  March, come right upstairs with me,	         I have so much to tell!	   I got your letter, and the bird's;	 The maples never knew	 That you were coming,— I declare,	 How red their faces grew!	         But,  March, forgive me—	 And all those hills	 You left for me to hue;	 There was no purple suitable,	 You took it all with you.	           Who knocks?  That  April!	 Lock the door!	 I will not be pursued!	 He stayed away a year, to call	 When  I am occupied.	         But trifles look so trivial	 As soon as you have come,	 That blame is just as dear as praise	 And praise as mere as blame.
 Mute thy  Coronation— Meek my  Vive le roi, Fold a tiny courtier In thine  Ermine,  Sir, There to rest revering Till the pageant by, I can murmur broken, Master,  It was  I—
 Pain—expands the  Time— Ages coil within The minute  Circumference Of a single  Brain— Pain contracts—the  Time— Occupied with  Shot Gamuts of  Eternities Are as they were not—
Warm in her  Hand these accents lie While faithful and afar The  Grace so awkward for her sake Its fond subjection wear -
 Who  Court obtain within  Himself Sees every  Man a  King— And  Poverty of  Monarchy Is an interior thing— No  Man depose Whom  Fate  Ordain— And  Who can add a  Crown To  Him who doth continual Conspire against  His  Own
The earth has many keys, Where melody is not Is the unknown peninsula. Beauty is nature's fact. But witness for her land, And witness for her sea, The cricket is her utmost Of elegy to me.
 I've heard an  Organ talk, sometimes In a  Cathedral  Aisle, And understood no word it said— Yet held my breath, the while— And risen up—and gone away, A more  Berdardine  Girl— Yet—know not what was done to me In that old  Chapel  Aisle.
Had we our senses But perhaps 'tis well they're not at  Home So intimate with  Madness He's liable with them Had we the eyes without our  Head— How well that we are  Blind— We could not look upon the  Earth— So utterly unmoved—
' Tis customary as we part A trinket—to confer— It helps to stimulate the faith When  Lovers be afar—' Tis various—as the various taste— Clematis—journeying far— Presents me with a single  Curl Of her  Electric  Hair—
 She staked her  Feathers— Gained an  Arc— Debated— Rose again— This time—beyond the estimate Of  Envy, or of  Men— And now, among  Circumference— Her steady  Boat be seen— At home—among the  Billows— As The  Bough where she was born—
 Most she touched me by her muteness— Most she won me by the way She presented her small figure— Plea itself—for  Charity— Were a  Crumb my whole possession— Were there famine in the land— Were it my resource from starving— Could  I such a plea withstand— Not upon her knee to thank me Sank this  Beggar from the  Sky— But the  Crumb partook—departed— And returned  On  High— I supposed—when sudden Such a  Praise began' Twas as  Space sat singing To herself—and men—' Twas the  Winged  Beggar— Afterward  I learned To her  Benefactor Making  Gratitude
 If  Blame be my side—forfeit  Me— But doom me not to forfeit  Thee— To forfeit  Thee?  The very name Is sentence from  Belief—and  House—
A  Pang is more conspicuous in  Spring In contrast with the things that sing Not  Birds entirely -  but  Minds -  Minute  Effulgencies and  Winds -  When what they sung for is undone Who cares about a  Blue  Bird's  Tune -  Why,  Resurrection had to wait Till they had moved a  Stone -
 My best  Acquaintances are those With  Whom  I spoke no  Word— The  Stars that stated come to  Town Esteemed  Me never rude Although to their  Celestial  Call I failed to make reply— My constant—reverential  Face Sufficient  Courtesy.
 The  Grace— Myself—might not obtain— Confer upon  My flower— Refracted but a  Countenance— For  I—inhabit  Her—
 When  Katie walks, this simple pair accompany her side, When  Katie runs unwearied they follow on the road, When  Katie kneels, their loving hands still clasp her pious knee— Ah!  Katie!  Smile at  Fortune, with two so knit to thee!
It sounded as if the  Streets were running And then -  the  Streets stood still -  Eclipse -  was all we could see at the  Window And  Awe -  was all we could feel. By and by -  the boldest stole out of his  Covert To see if  Time was there -  Nature was in an  Opal  Apron, Mixing fresher  Air.
 Savior!  I've no one else to tell— And so  I trouble thee. I am the one forgot thee so— Dost thou remember me? Nor, for myself,  I came so far— That were the little load— I brought thee the imperial  Heart I had not strength to hold— The  Heart  I carried in my own— Till mine too heavy grew— Yet—strangest—heavier since it went— Is it too large for you?
 The  Day that  I was crowned Was like the other  Days— Until the  Coronation came— And then—'twas  Otherwise— As  Carbon in the  Coal And  Carbon in the  Gem Are  One—and yet the former Were dull for  Diadem— I rose, and all was plain— But when the  Day declined Myself and  It, in  Majesty Were equally—adorned— The  Grace that  I—was chose— To  Me—surpassed the  Crown That was the  Witness for the  Grace—' Twas even that 'twas  Mine—
Image of  Light,  Adieu -  Thanks for the interview -  So long -  so short -  Preceptor of the whole -  Coeval  Cardinal -  Impart -   Depart -
 Of  Tribulation, these are  They, Denoted by the  White— The  Spangled  Gowns, a lesser  Rank Of  Victors—designate— All these—did conquer— But the ones who overcame most times— Wear nothing commoner than  Snow— No  Ornament, but  Palms— Surrender—is a sort unknown— On this superior soil— Defeat—an outgrown  Anguish— Remembered, as the  Mile Our panting  Ankle barely passed— When  Night devoured the  Road— But we—stood whispering in the  House— And all we said—was " Saved"!
It's thoughts—and just  One  Heart— And  Old  Sunshine—about— Make frugal— Ones— Content— And two or three—for  Company— Upon a  Holiday— Crowded—as  Sacrament— Books—when the  Unit— Spare the  Tenant—long eno'— A  Picture—if it  Care— Itself—a  Gallery too rare— For needing more— Flowers—to keep the  Eyes—from going awkward— When it snows— A  Bird—if they—prefer— Though  Winter fire—sing clear as  Plover— To our—ear— A  Landscape—not so great To suffocate the  Eye— A  Hill—perhaps— Perhaps—the profile of a  Mill Turned by the  Wind— Tho' such—are luxuries— It's thoughts—and just two  Heart— And  Heaven—about— At least—a  Counterfeit— We would not have  Correct— And  Immortality—can be almost— Not quite— Content—
There comes a warning like a spy A shorter breath of  Day A stealing that is not a stealth And  Summers are away
The going from a world we know To one a wonder still Is like the child's adversity Whose vista is a hill, Behind the hill is sorcery And everything unknown, But will the secret compensate For climbing it alone?
The  Butterfly upon the  Sky, That doesn't know its  Name And hasn't any tax to pay And hasn't any  Home Is just as high as you and  I, And higher,  I believe, So soar away and never sigh And that's the way to grieve -
Lightly stepped a yellow star To its lofty place -  Loosed the  Moon her silver hat From her lustral  Face -  All of  Evening softly lit As an  Astral  Hall -  Father,  I observed to  Heaven, You are punctual.
The  Beggar at the  Door for  Fame Were easily supplied But  Bread is that  Diviner thing Disclosed to be denied
Said  Death to  Passion' Give of thine an  Acre unto me.' Said  Passion, through contracting  Breaths' A  Thousand  Times  Thee  Nay.' Bore  Death from  Passion All  His  East He -  sovereign as the  Sun Resituated in the  West And the  Debate was done.
 They ask but our  Delight— The  Darlings of the  Soil And grant us all their  Countenance For a penurious smile.
The grave my little cottage is, Where ' Keeping house' for thee I make my parlor orderly And lay the marble tea. For two divided, briefly, A cycle, it may be, Till everlasting life unite In strong society.
There is another  Loneliness That many die without -  Not want of friend occasions it Or circumstances of  Lot But nature, sometimes, sometimes thought And whoso it befall Is richer than could be revealed By mortal numeral
 The  Heaven vests for  Each In that small  Deity It craved the grace to worship Some bashful  Summer's  Day— Half shrinking from the  Glory It importuned to see Till these faint  Tabernacles drop In full  Eternity— How imminent the  Venture— As one should sue a  Star— For  His mean sake to leave the  Row And entertain  Despair— A  Clemency so common— We almost cease to fear— Enabling the minutest— And furthest—to adore—
By homely gift and hindered  Words The human heart is told Of  Nothing - ' Nothing' is the force That renovates the  World -
 This—is the land—the  Sunset washes— These—are the  Banks of the  Yellow  Sea— Where it rose—or whither it rushes— These—are the  Western  Mystery! Night after  Night Her purple traffic Strews the landing with  Opal  Bales— Merchantmen—poise upon  Horizons— Dip—and vanish like  Orioles!
Death is like the insect Menacing the tree, Competent to kill it, But decoyed may be. Bait it with the balsam, Seek it with the saw, Baffle, if it cost you Everything you are. Then, if it have burrowed Out of reach of skill -  Wring the tree and leave it,' Tis the vermin's will.
 When  I have seen the  Sun emerge From  His amazing  House— And leave a  Day at every  Door A  Deed, in every place— Without the incident of  Fame Or accident of  Noise— The  Earth has seemed to me a  Drum, Pursued of little  Boys
 No  Crowd that has occurred Exhibit— I suppose That  General  Attendance That  Resurrection—does— Circumferen ce be full— The long restricted  Grave Assert her  Vital  Privilege— The  Dust—connect—and live— On  Atoms—features place— All  Multitudes that were Efface in the  Comparison— As  Suns—dissolve a star— Solemnity—prevail—  Its  Individual  Doom Possess each separate  Consciousness— August— Absorbed&mda sh; Numb— What  Duplicate—exist— What  Parallel can be— Of the  Significance of  This— To  Universe—and  Me?
As subtle as tomorrow That never came, A warrant, a conviction, Yet but a name.
Luck is not chance It's  Toil Fortune's expensive smile Is earned The  Father of the  Mine Is that old-fashioned  Coin We spurned
 The  Sun is gay or stark According to our  Deed. If  Merry,  He is merrier— If eager for the  Dead Or an expended  Day He helped to make too bright His mighty pleasure suits  Us not It magnifies our  Freight
No brigadier throughout the year So civic as the jay. A neighbor and a warrior too, With shrill felicity Pursuing winds that censure us A  February day, The brother of the universe Was never blown away. The snow and he are intimate; I 've often seen them play When heaven looked upon us all With such severity, I felt apology were due To an insulted sky, Whose pompous frown was nutriment To their temerity. The pillow of this daring head Is pungent evergreens; His larder — terse and militant — Unknown, refreshing things; His character a tonic, His future a dispute; Unfair an immortality That leaves this neighbor out.
 This  Chasm,  Sweet, upon my life I mention it to you, When  Sunrise through a fissure drop The  Day must follow too. If we demur, its gaping sides Disclose as 'twere a  Tomb Ourself am lying straight wherein The  Favorite of  Doom. When it has just contained a  Life Then,  Darling, it will close And yet so bolder every  Day So turbulent it grows I'm tempted half to stitch it up With a remaining  Breath I should not miss in yielding, though To  Him, it would be  Death— And so  I bear it big about My  Burial—before A  Life quite ready to depart Can harass me no more—
 Whose cheek is this? What rosy face Has lost a blush today? I found her—"pleiad"—in the woods And bore her safe away. Robins, in the tradition Did cover such with leaves, But which the cheek— And which the pall My scrutiny deceives.
 Removed from  Accident of  Loss By  Accident of  Gain Befalling not my simple  Days— Myself had just to earn— Of  Riches—as unconscious As is the  Brown  Malay Of  Pearls in  Eastern  Waters, Marked  His— What  Holiday Would stir his slow conception— Had he the power to dream That put the  Dower's fraction— Awaited even— Him—
Dying at my music! Bubble!  Bubble! Hold me till the  Octave's run! Quick!  Burst the  Windows! Ritardando! Phials left, and the  Sun!
Revolution is the  Pod Systems rattle from When the  Winds of  Will are stirred Excellent is  Bloom But except its  Russet  Base Every  Summer be The  Entomber of itself, So of  Liberty -  Left inactive on the  Stalk All its  Purple fled Revolution shakes it for Test if it be dead.
 Shells from the  Coast mistaking— I cherished them for  All— Happening in  After  Ages To entertain a  Pearl— Wherefore so late— I murmured— My need of  Thee—be done— Therefore—the  Pearl responded— My  Period begin
 Wert  Thou but ill—that  I might show thee How long a  Day  I could endure Though thine attention stop not on me Nor the least signal,  Me assure— Wert  Thou but  Stranger in ungracious country— And  Mine—the  Door Thou paused at, for a passing bounty— No  More— Accused—wert  Thou—and  Myself— Tribunal— Convicted— Sentenced— Ermine—not to  Me Half the  Condition, thy  Reverse—to follow— Just to partake—the infamy— The  Tenant of the  Narrow  Cottage, wert  Thou— Permit to be The  Housewife in thy low attendance Contenteth  Me— No  Service hast  Thou,  I would not achieve it— To die—or live— The first— Sweet, proved  I, ere  I saw thee— For  Life—be  Love—
 Of  Silken  Speech and  Specious  Shoe A  Traitor is the  Bee His service to the newest  Grace Present continually His  Suit a chance His  Troth a  Term Protracted as the  Breeze Continual  Ban propoundeth  He Continual  Divorce.
 He outstripped  Time with but a  Bout, He outstripped  Stars and  Sun And then, unjaded, challenged  God In presence of the  Throne. And  He and  He in mighty  List Unto this present, run, The larger  Glory for the less A just sufficient  Ring.
The  Mushroom is the  Elf of  Plants - At  Evening, it is not At  Morning, in a  Truffled  Hut It stop opon a  Spot As if it tarried always And yet it's whole  Career Is shorter than a  Snake's  Delay - And fleeter than a  Tare -' Tis  Vegetation's  Juggler - The  Germ of  Alibi - Doth like a  Bubble antedate And like a  Bubble, hie - I feel as if the  Grass was pleased To have it intermit - This surreptitious  Scion Of  Summer's circumspect. Had  Nature any supple  Face Or could she one contemn - Had  Nature an  Apostate - That  Mushroom - it is  Him!
Whose  Pink career may have a close Portentous as our own, who knows? To imitate these  Neighbors fleet In awe and innocence, were meet.
To the bright east she flies, Brothers of  Paradise Remit her home, Without a change of wings, Or  Love's convenient things, Enticed to come. Fashioning what she is, Fathoming what she was, We deem we dream -  And that dissolves the days Through which existence strays Homeless at home.
 Where bells no more affright the morn— Where scrabble never comes— Where very nimble  Gentlemen Are forced to keep their rooms— Where tired  Children placid sleep Thro'  Centuries of noon This place is  Bliss—this town is  Heaven— Please,  Pater, pretty soon!" Oh could we climb where  Moses stood, And view the  Landscape o'er" Not  Father's bells—nor  Factories, Could scare us any more!
The  Road was lit with  Moon and star -  The  Trees were bright and still -  Descried  I -  by the distant  Light A  Traveller on a  Hill -  To magic  Perpendiculars Ascending, though  Terrene -  Unknown his shimmering ultimate -  But he indorsed the sheen -
 The  Tint  I cannot take—is best— The  Color too remote That  I could show it in  Bazaar— A  Guinea at a sight— The fine—impalpable  Array— That swaggers on the eye Like  Cleopatra's  Company— Repeated—in the sky— The  Moments of  Dominion That happen on the  Soul And leave it with a  Discontent Too exquisite—to tell— The eager look—on  Landscapes— As if they just repressed Some  Secret—that was pushing Like  Chariots—in the  Vest— The  Pleading of the  Summer— That other  Prank—of  Snow— That  Cushions  Mystery with  Tulle, For fear the  Squirrels—know. Their  Graspless manners—mock us— Until the  Cheated  Eye Shuts arrogantly—in the  Grave— Another way—to see—
The spry  Arms of the  Wind If  I could crawl between I have an errand imminent To an adjoining  Zone -  I should not care to stop My  Process is not long The  Wind could wait without the  Gate Or stroll the  Town among. To ascertain the  House And is the soul at  Home And hold the  Wick of mine to it To light, and then return -
 They have a little  Odor—that to me Is metre—nay—'tis melody— And spiciest at fading—indicate— A  Habit—of a  Laureate—
" I want"—it pleaded— All its life— I want—was chief it said When  Skill entreated it—the last— And when so newly dead— I could not deem it late—to hear That single—steadfast sigh— The lips had placed as with a " Please" Toward  Eternity—
 The  Soul that hath a  Guest Doth seldom go abroad— Diviner  Crowd at  Home— Obliterate the need— And  Courtesy forbid A  Host's departure when Upon  Himself be visiting The  Emperor of  Men—
The  Sea said ' Come' to the  Brook -  The  Brook said ' Let me grow' -  The  Sea said ' Then you will be a  Sea -  I want a  Brook -   Come now'! The  Sea said ' Go' to the  Sea -  The  Sea said ' I am he You cherished' -  ' Learned  Waters -  Wisdom is stale -  to  Me'
 Me, change!  Me, alter! Then  I will, when on the  Everlasting  Hill A  Smaller  Purple grows— At sunset, or a lesser glow Flickers upon  Cordillera— At  Day's superior close!
When  Memory is full Put on the perfect  Lid -  This  Morning's finest syllable Presumptuous  Evening said -
Could  Hope inspect her  Basis Her  Craft were done -  Has a fictitious  Charter Or it has none -  Balked in the vastest instance But to renew -  Felled by but one assassin -  Prosperity -
So much of  Heaven has gone from  Earth That there must be a  Heaven If only to enclose the  Saints To  Affidavit given. The  Missionary to the  Mole Must prove there is a  Sky Location doubtless he would plead But what excuse have  I? Too much of  Proof affronts  Belief The  Turtle will not try Unless you leave him -  then return And he has hauled away.
The  Notice that is called the  Spring Is but a month from here -  Put up my  Heart thy  Hoary work And take a  Rosy  Chair. Not any  House the  Flowers keep -  The  Birds enamor  Care -  Our salary the longest  Day Is nothing but a  Bier.
 Severer  Service of myself I—hastened to demand To fill the awful  Vacuum Your life had left behind— I worried  Nature with my  Wheels When  Hers had ceased to run— When she had put away  Her  Work My own had just begun. I strove to weary  Brain and  Bone— To harass to fatigue The glittering  Retinue of nerves— Vitality to clog To some dull comfort  Those obtain Who put a  Head away They knew the  Hair to— And forget the color of the  Day— Affliction would not be appeased— The  Darkness braced as firm As all my stratagem had been The  Midnight to confirm— No  Drug for  Consciousness—can be— Alternative to die Is  Nature's only  Pharmacy For  Being's  Malady—
Yesterday is  History,' Tis so far away -  Yesterday is  Poetry - ' Tis  Philosophy -  Yesterday is mystery -  Where it is  Today While we shrewdly speculate Flutter both away
Could mortal lip divine The undeveloped  Freight Of a delivered syllable' Twould crumble with the weight.
A  Word dropped careless on a  Page May stimulate an eye When folded in perpetual seam The  Wrinkled  Maker lie Infection in the sentence breeds We may inhale  Despair At distances of  Centuries From the  Malaria -
 Portraits are to daily faces As an  Evening  West, To a fine, pedantic sunshine— In a satin  Vest!
 Our share of night to bear— Our share of morning— Our blank in bliss to fill Our blank in scorning— Here a star, and there a star, Some lose their way! Here a mist, and there a mist, Afterwards— Day!
Drowning is not so pitiful   As the attempt to rise.	 Three times, 't is said, a sinking man	   Comes up to face the skies,	 And then declines forever	           To that abhorred abode	   Where hope and he part company,—	   For he is grasped of  God.	 The  Maker's cordial visage,	   However good to see,	         Is shunned, we must admit it,	   Like an adversity.
 I've nothing else—to bring,  You know— So  I keep bringing  These— Just as the  Night keeps fetching  Stars To our familiar eyes— Maybe, we shouldn't mind them— Unless they didn't come— Then—maybe, it would puzzle us To find our way  Home—
 There are two  Ripenings—one—of sight— Whose forces  Spheric wind Until the  Velvet product Drop spicy to the ground— A homelier maturing— A process in the  Bur— That teeth of  Frosts alone disclose In far  October  Air.
 Low at my problem bending, Another problem comes— Larger than mine— Serener— Involving statelier sums. I check my busy pencil, My figures file away. Wherefore, my baffled fingers They perplexity?
 Have any like  Myself Investigating  March, New  Houses on the  Hill descried— And possibly a  Church— That were not,  We are sure— As lately as the  Snow— And are  Today—if  We exist— Though how may this be so? Have any like  Myself Conjectured  Who may be The  Occupants of the  Adobes— So easy to the  Sky—' Twould seem that  God should be The nearest  Neighbor to— And  Heaven—a convenient  Grace For  Show, or  Company— Have any like  Myself Preserved the  Charm secure By shunning carefully the  Place All  Seasons of the  Year, Excepting  March—' Tis then My  Villages be seen— And possibly a  Steeple— Not afterward—by  Men—
All men for  Honor hardest work But are not known to earn -  Paid after they have ceased to work In  Infamy or  Urn -
T H E  L A R G E S T fire ever known	 Occurs each afternoon,	 Discovered is without surprise,	 Proceeds without concern:	 Consumes, and no report to men,	         An  Occidental town,	 Rebuilt another morning	 To be again burned down.
M I N E enemy is growing old,	 I have at last revenge.	 The palate of the hate departs;	 If any would avenge,	   Let him be quick, the viand flits,	         It is a faded meat.	 Anger as soon as fed is dead;	' T is starving makes it fat.
A train went through a burial gate, A bird broke forth and sang, And trilled, and quivered, and shook his throat Till all the churchyard rang; And then adjusted his little notes, And bowed and sang again. Doubtless, he thought it meet of him To say good-by to men.
 The  Birds reported from the  South— A  News express to  Me— A spicy  Charge,  My little  Posts— But  I am deaf— Today— The  Flowers—appealed—a timid  Throng— I reinforced the  Door— Go blossom for the  Bees— I said— And trouble  Me—no  More— The  Summer  Grace, for  Notice strove— Remote— Her best  Array— The  Heart—to stimulate the  Eye Refused too utterly— At length, a  Mourner, like  Myself, She drew away austere— Her frosts to ponder—then it was I recollected  Her— She suffered  Me, for  I had mourned— I offered  Her no word— My  Witness—was the  Crape  I bore— Her— Witness—was  Her  Dead— Thenceforward— We—t ogether dwelt— I never questioned  Her— Our  Contract A  Wiser  Sympathy
March is the  Month of  Expectation. The things we do not know -  The  Persons of prognostication Are coming now -  We try to show becoming firmness -  But pompous  Joy Betrays us, as his first  Betrothal Betrays a  Boy.
It stole along so stealthy Suspicion it was done Was dim as to the wealthy Beginning not to own -
The  Face we choose to miss -  Be it but for a  Day As absent as a  Hundred  Years, When it has rode away.
Immured in  Heaven! What a  Cell! Let every  Bondage be, Thou sweetest of the  Universe, Like that which ravished thee!
 The  One who could repeat the  Summer day— Were greater than itself—though  He Minutest of  Mankind should be— And  He—could reproduce the  Sun— At period of going down— The  Lingering—and the  Stain— I mean— When  Orient have been outgrown And  Occident—become  Unknown— His  Name—remain—
 No  Prisoner be— Where  Liberty— Himself—abide with  Thee—
 Reverse cannot befall That fine  Prosperity Whose  Sources are interior— As soon— Adversity A  Diamond—overtake In far— Bolivian  Ground— Misfortune hath no implement Could mar it—if it found—
 The  Himmaleh was known to stoop Unto the  Daisy low— Transported with  Compassion That such a  Doll should grow Where  Tent by  Tent— Her  Universe Hung out its  Flags of  Snow—
It's like the light, --    A fashionless delight It's like the bee, --    A dateless melody. It's like the woods,    Private like breeze, Phraseless, yet it stirs    The proudest trees. It's like the morning, --    Best when it's done, -- The everlasting clocks    Chime noon.
 Many a phrase has the  English language— I have heard but one— Low as the laughter of the  Cricket, Loud, as the  Thunder's  Tongue— Murmuring, like old  Caspian  Choirs, When the  Tide's a' lull— Saying itself in new infection— Like a  Whippoorwill— Breaking in bright  Orthography On my simple sleep— Thundering its  Prospective— Till  I stir, and weep— Not for the  Sorrow, done me— But the push of  Joy— Say it again,  Saxton! Hush— Only to me!
A chilly  Peace infests the  Grass The  Sun respectful lies -  Not any  Trance of industry These shadows scrutinize -  Whose  Allies go no more astray For service or for  Glee -  But all mankind deliver here From whatsoever sea -
The  Devil -  had he fidelity Would be the best friend -  Because he has ability -  But  Devils cannot mend -  Perfidy is the virtue That would but he resign The  Devil -  without question Were thoroughly divine
My cocoon tightens, colors tease, I'm feeling for the air; A dim capacity for wings Degrades the dress  I wear.  A power of butterfly must be The aptitude to fly, Meadows of majesty concedes And easy sweeps of sky.  So  I must baffle at the hint And cipher at the sign, And make much blunder, if at last I take the clew divine.
 There is a  Shame of  Nobleness— Confronting  Sudden  Pelf— A finer  Shame of  Ecstasy— Convicted of  Itself— A best  Disgrace—a  Brave  Man feels— Acknowledged—of the  Brave— One  More—" Ye  Blessed"—to be told— But that's— Behind the  Grave—
Too cold is this To warm with  Sun -  Too stiff to bended be, To joint this  Agate were a work -  Outstaring  Masonry -  How went the  Agile  Kernel out Contusion of the  Husk Nor  Rip, nor wrinkle indicate But just an  Asterisk.
 He parts  Himself—like  Leaves— And then— He closes up— Then stands upon the  Bonnet Of  Any  Buttercup— And then  He runs against And oversets a  Rose— And then does  Nothing— Then away upon a  Jib— He goes— And dangles like a  Mote Suspended in the  Noon— Uncertain—to return  Below— Or settle in the  Moon— What come of  Him—at  Night— The privilege to say Be limited by  Ignorance— What come of  Him— That  Day— The  Frost—possess the  World— In  Cabinets—be shown— A  Sepulchre of quaintest  Floss— An  Abbey—a  Cocoon—
As old as  Woe -  How old is that? Some eighteen thousand years -  As old as  Bliss How old is that They are of equal years Together chiefest they ard found But seldom side by side From neither of them tho' he try Can  Human nature hide
The duties of the  Wind are few, To cast the ships, at  Sea, Establish  March, the  Floods escort, And usher  Liberty. The pleasures of the  Wind are broad, To dwell  Extent among, Remain, or wander, Speculate, or  Forests entertain. The kinsmen of the  Wind are  Peaks Azof -  the  Equinox, Also with  Bird and  Asteroid A bowing intercourse. The limitations of the  Wind Do he exist, or die, Too wise he seems for  Wakelessness, However, know not i.
Best  Witchcraft is  Geometry To the magician's mind -  His ordinary acts are feats To thinking of mankind.
Of  Brussels—it was not— Of  Kidderminster?  Nay— The  Winds did buy it of the  Woods— They—sold it unto me It was a gentle price— The poorest—could afford— It was within the frugal purse Of  Beggar—or of  Bird— Of small and spicy  Yards— In hue—a mellow  Dun— Of  Sunshine—and of  Sere— Composed— But, principally—of  Sun— The  Wind—unrolled it fast— And spread it on the  Ground— Upholsterer of the  Pines—is  He— Upholsterer—of the  Pond—
" Morning"—means " Milking"—to the  Farmer— Dawn—to the  Teneriffe— Dice—to the  Maid— Morning means just  Risk—to the  Lover— Just revelation—to the  Beloved— Epicures—date a  Breakfast—by it— Brides—an  Apocalypse— Worlds—a  Flood— Faint-going  Lives— Their  Lapse from  Sighing— Faith— The  Experiment of  Our  Lord
 The feet of people walking home With gayer sandals go— The  Crocus— til she rises The  Vassal of the snow— The lips at  Hallelujah Long years of practise bore Til bye and bye these  Bargemen Walked singing on the shore. Pearls are the  Diver's farthings Extorted from the  Sea— Pinions— the  Seraph's wagon Pedestrian once— as we— Night is the morning's  Canvas Larceny— legacy— Death, but our rapt attention To  Immortality. My figures fail to tell me How far the  Village lies— Whose peasants are the  Angels— Whose  Cantons dot the skies— My  Classics veil their faces— My faith that  Dark adores— Which from its solemn abbeys Such ressurection pours.
The  Butterfly's  Assumption  Gown In  Chrysoprase  Apartments hung This afternoon put on -  How condescending to descend And be of  Buttercups the friend In a  New  England  Town -
Hope is a strange invention -  A  Patent of the  Heart -  In unremitting action Yet never wearing out -  Of this electric  Adjunct Not anything is known But its unique momentum Embellish all we own -
 We don't cry— Tim and  I, We are far too grand— But we bolt the door tight To prevent a friend— Then we hide our brave face Deep in our hand— Not to cry— Tim and  I— We are far too grand— Nor to dream—he and me— Do we condescend— We just shut our brown eye To see to the end— Tim—see  Cottages— But,  Oh, so high! Then—we shake— Tim and  I— And lest  I—cry— Tim—reads a little  Hymn— And we both pray— Please,  Sir,  I and  Tim— Always lost the way! We must die—by and by— Clergymen say— Tim—shall—if  I—do— I—too—if he— How shall we arrange it— Tim—was—so—shy? Take us simultaneous— Lord— I—" Tim"—and  Me!
 I've none to tell me to but  Thee So when  Thou failest, nobody. It was a little tie— It just held  Two, nor those it held Since  Somewhere thy sweet  Face has spilled Beyond my  Boundary— If things were opposite—and  Me And  Me it were—that ebbed from  Thee On some unanswering  Shore— Would'st  Thou seek so—just say That  I the  Answer may pursue Unto the lips it eddied through— So—overtaking  Thee—
As from the earth the light  Balloon Asks nothing but release -  Ascension that for which it was, Its soaring  Residence. The spirit looks upon the  Dust That fastened it so long With indignation, As a  Bird Defrauded of its song.
 Not all die early, dying young— Maturity of  Fate Is consummated equally In  Ages, or a  Night— A  Hoary  Boy,  I've known to drop Whole statured—by the side Of  Junior of  Fourscore—'twas  Act Not  Period—that died.
I thought the  Train would never come -  How slow the whistle sang -  I don't believe a peevish  Bird So whimpered for the  Spring -  I taught my  Heart a hundred times Precisely what to say -  Provoking  Lover, when you came Its  Treatise flew away To hide my strategy too late To wiser be too soon -  For miseries so halcyon The happiness atone -
 Only a  Shrine, but  Mine— I made the  Taper shine— Madonna dim, to whom all  Feet may come, Regard a  Nun— Thou knowest every  Woe— Needless to tell thee—so— But can'st thou do The  Grace next to it—heal? That looks a harder skill to us— Still—just as easy, if it be thy  Will To thee— Grant me— Thou knowest, though, so  Why tell thee?
 The  Chemical conviction That  Nought be lost Enable in  Disaster My fractured  Trust— The  Faces of the  Atoms If  I shall see How more the  Finished  Creatures Departed me!
 My first well  Day—since many ill— I asked to go abroad, And take the  Sunshine in my hands, And see the things in  Pod— A 'blossom just when  I went in To take my  Chance with pain— Uncertain if myself, or  He, Should prove the strongest  One. The  Summer deepened, while we strove— She put some flowers away— And  Redder cheeked  Ones—in their stead— A fond—illusive way— To cheat  Herself, it seemed she tried— As if before a child To fade— Tomorrow— Rainbows held The  Sepulchre, could hide. She dealt a fashion to the  Nut— She tied the  Hoods to  Seeds— She dropped bright scraps of  Tint, about— And left  Brazilian  Threads On every shoulder that she met— Then both her  Hands of  Haze Put up—to hide her parting  Grace From our unfitted eyes. My loss, by sickness— Was it  Loss? Or that  Ethereal  Gain One earns by measuring the  Grave— Then—measuring the  Sun—
 I had some things that  I called mine— And  God, that he called his, Till, recently a rival  Claim Disturbed these amities. The property, my garden, Which having sown with care, He claims the pretty acre, And sends a  Bailiff there. The station of the parties Forbids publicity, But  Justice is sublimer Than arms, or pedigree. I'll institute an " Action"— I'll vindicate the law— Jove!  Choose your counsel— I retain " Shaw"!
 No  Other can reduce Our mortal  Consequence Like the remembering it be nought A  Period from hence But  Contemplation for Contemporaneous  Nought Our  Single  Competition Jehovah's  Estimate.
 Noon—is the  Hinge of  Day— Evening—the  Tissue  Door— Morning—the  East compelling the sill Till all the  World is ajar—
The inundation of the  Spring Enlarges every soul -  It sweeps the tenement away But leaves the  Water whole -  In which the soul at first estranged -  Seeks faintly for its shore But acclimated -  pines no more For that  Peninsula -
 This  Dust, and its  Feature— Accredited— Today— Will in a second  Future— Cease to identify— This  Mind, and its measure— A too minute  Area For its enlarged inspection's Comparison—appear— This  World, and its species A too concluded show For its absorbed  Attention's Remotest scrutiny—
 Prayer is the little implement Through which  Men reach Where  Presence—is denied them. They fling their  Speech By means of it—in  God's  Ear— If then  He hear— This sums the  Apparatus Comprised in  Prayer—
 Morns like these—we parted— Noons like these—she rose— Fluttering first—then firmer To her fair repose. Never did she lisp it— It was not for me— She—was mute from transport— I—from agony— Till—the evening nearing One the curtains drew— Quick!  A  Sharper rustling! And this linnet flew!
Not  Sickness stains the  Brave, Nor any  Dart, Nor  Doubt of  Scene to come, But an adjourning  Heart -
How fits his  Umber  Coat The  Tailor of the  Nut? Combined without a seam Like  Raiment of a  Dream -  Who spun the  Auburn  Cloth? Computed how the girth? The  Chestnut aged grows In those primeval  Clothes -  We know that we are wise -  Accomplished in  Surprise -  Yet by this  Countryman -  This nature -  how undone!
 The  World—stands—solemner—to me— Since  I was wed—to  Him— A modesty befits the soul That bears another's—name— A doubt—if it be fair—indeed— To wear that perfect—pearl— The  Man—upon the  Woman—binds— To clasp her soul—for all— A prayer, that it more angel—prove— A whiter  Gift—within— To that munificence, that chose— So unadorned—a  Queen— A  Gratitude—that such be true— It had esteemed the  Dream— Too beautiful—for  Shape to prove— Or posture—to redeem!
 Who  Giants know, with lesser  Men Are incomplete, and shy— For  Greatness, that is ill at ease In minor  Company— A  Smaller, could not be perturbed— The  Summer  Gnat displays— Unconscious that his single  Fleet Do not comprise the skies—
 To hang our head—ostensibly— And subsequent, to find That such was not the posture Of our immortal mind— Affords the sly presumption That in so dense a fuzz— You—too—take  Cobweb attitudes Upon a plane of  Gauze!
 If  What we could—were what we would— Criterion—be small— It is the  Ultimate of  Talk— The  Impotence to  Tell—
 Some such  Butterfly be seen On  Brazilian  Pampas— Just at noon—no later— Sweet— Then—the  License closes— Some such  Spice—express and pass— Subject to  Your  Plucking— As the  Stars— You knew last  Night— Foreigners— This  Morning—
 One  Day is there of the  Series Termed  Thanksgiving  Day. Celebrated part at  Table Part in  Memory. Neither  Patriarch nor  Pussy I dissect the  Play Seems it to my  Hooded thinking Reflex  Holiday. Had there been no sharp  Subtraction From the early  Sum— Not an  Acre or a  Caption Where was once a  Room— Not a  Mention, whose small  Pebble Wrinkled any  Sea, Unto  Such, were such  Assembly' Twere  Thanksgiving  Day.
 The  Lamp burns sure—within— Tho'  Serfs—supply the  Oil— It matters not the busy  Wick— At her phosphoric toil! The  Slave—forgets—to fill— The  Lamp—burns golden—on— Unconscious that the oil is out— As that the  Slave—is gone.
If ever the lid gets off my head And lets the brain away The fellow will go where he belonged -  Without a hint from me, And the world -  if the world be looking on -  Will see how far from home It is possible for sense to live The soul there -  all the time.
The  Hills erect their  Purple  Heads The  Rivers lean to see Yet  Man has not of all the  Throng A  Curiosity.
 The  Province of the  Saved Should be the  Art— To save— Through  Skill obtained in  Themselves— The  Science of the  Grave No  Man can understand But  He that hath endured The  Dissolution—in  Himself— That  Man—be qualified To qualify  Despair To  Those who failing new— Mistake  Defeat for  Death— Each time— Till acclimated—to—
 Gratitude—is not the mention Of a  Tenderness, But its still appreciation Out of  Plumb of  Speech. When the  Sea return no  Answer By the  Line and  Lead Proves it there's no  Sea, or rather A remoter  Bed?
 One  Life of so much  Consequence! Yet  I—for it—would pay— My  Soul's entire income— In ceaseless—salary— One  Pearl—to me—so signal— That  I would instant dive— Although— I knew—to take it— Would cost me—just a life! The  Sea is full— I know it! That—does not blur my  Gem! It burns—distinct from all the row— Intact—in  Diadem! The life is thick— I know it! Yet—not so dense a crowd— But  Monarchs—are perceptible— Far down the dustiest  Road!
 Least  Bee that brew— A  Honey's  Weight Content  Her smallest fraction help The  Amber  Quantity—
 The  Bird must sing to earn the  Crumb What merit have the  Tune No  Breakfast if it guaranty The  Rose content may bloom To gain renown of  Lady's  Drawer But if the  Lady come But once a  Century, the  Rose Superfluous become—
 If she had been the  Mistletoe And  I had been the  Rose— How gay upon your table My velvet life to close— Since  I am of the  Druid, And she is of the dew— I'll deck  Tradition's buttonhole— And send the  Rose to you.
 What care the  Dead, for  Chanticleer— What care the  Dead for  Day?' Tis late your  Sunrise vex their face— And  Purple  Ribaldry—of  Morning Pour as blank on them As on the  Tier of  Wall The  Mason builded, yesterday, And equally as cool— What care the  Dead for  Summer? The  Solstice had no  Sun Could waste the  Snow before their  Gate— And knew  One  Bird a  Tune— Could thrill their  Mortised  Ear Of all the  Birds that be— This  One—beloved of  Mankind Henceforward cherished be— What care the  Dead for  Winter? Themselves as easy freeze— June  Noon—as  January  Night— As soon the  South—her  Breeze Of  Sycamore—or  Cinnamon— Deposit in a  Stone And put a  Stone to keep it  Warm— Give  Spices—unto  Men—
 Not " Revelation"—'tis—that waits, But our unfurnished eyes—
Praise it -  'tis dead -  It cannot glow -  Warm this inclement  Ear With the encomium it earned Since it was gathered here -  Invest this alabaster  Zest In the  Delights of  Dust -  Remitted -  since it flitted it In recusance august.
I bet with every  Wind that blew Till  Nature in chagrin Employed a  Fact to visit me And scuttle my  Balloon -
The  Wind took up the  Northern  Things And piled them in the south -  Then gave the  East unto the  West And opening his mouth The four  Divisions of the  Earth Did make as to devour While everything to corners slunk Behind the awful power -  The  Wind -  unto his  Chambers went And nature ventured out -  Her subjects scattered into place Her systems ranged about Again the smoke from  Dwellings rose The  Day abroad was heard -  How intimate, a  Tempest past The  Transport of the  Bird -
 His  Bill an  Auger is, His  Head, a  Cap and  Frill. He laboreth at every  Tree A  Worm,  His utmost  Goal.
A  Wind that rose Though not a  Leaf In any  Forest stirred But with itself did cold engage Beyond the  Realm of  Bird -  A  Wind that woke a lone  Delight Like  Separation's  Swell Restored in  Arctic  Confidence To the  Invisible -
 Time feels so vast that were it not For an  Eternity— I fear me this  Circumference Engross my  Finity— To  His exclusion, who prepare By  Processes of  Size For the  Stupendous  Vision Of his diameters—
 He found my  Being—set it up— Adjusted it to place— Then carved his name—upon it— And bade it to the  East Be faithful—in his absence— And he would come again— With  Equipage of  Amber— That time—to take it  Home—
Shall  I take thee, the  Poet said To the propounded word? Be stationed with the  Candidates Till  I have finer tried— The  Poet searched  Philology And when about to ring For the suspended  Candidate There came unsummoned in— That portion of the  Vision The  Word applied to fill Not unto nomination The  Cherubim reveal—
 I know lives,  I could miss Without a  Misery— Others—whose instant's wanting— Would be  Eternity— The last—a scanty  Number—' Twould scarcely fill a  Two— The first—a  Gnat's  Horizon Could easily outgrow—
 What shall  I do—it whimpers so— This little  Hound within the  Heart All day and night with bark and start— And yet, it will not go— Would you untie it, were you me— Would it stop whining—if to  Thee— I sent it—even now? It should not tease you— By your chair—or, on the mat— Or if it dare—to climb your dizzy knee— Or—sometimes at your side to run— When you were willing— Shall it come? Tell  Carlo— He'll tell me!
How  Human  Nature dotes On what it can't detect. The moment that a  Plot is plumbed Prospective is extinct -  Prospective is the friend Reserved for us to know When  Constancy is clarified Of  Curiosity -  Of subjects that resist Redoubtablest is this Where go we -  Go we anywhere Creation after this?
 While  Asters— On the  Hill— Their  Everlasting fashions—set— And  Covenant  Gentians— Frill!
 Not probable— The barest  Chance— A smile too few—a word too much And far from  Heaven as the  Rest— The  Soul so close on  Paradise— What if the  Bird from journey far— Confused by  Sweets—as  Mortals—are— Forget the secret of  His wing And perish—but a  Bough between— Oh,  Groping feet— Oh  Phantom  Queen!
Lives he in any other world My faith cannot reply Before it was imperative' Twas all distinct to me -
 Purple—is fashionable twice— This season of the year, And when a soul perceives itself To be an  Emperor.
F O R B I D D E N fruit a flavor has	   That lawful orchards mocks;	 How luscious lies the pea within	   The pod that  Duty locks!
The  Spider as an  Artist Has never been employed -  Though his surpassing  Merit Is freely certified By every  Broom and  Bridget Throughout a  Christian  Land -  Neglected  Son of  Genius I take thee by the  Hand -
 He who in  Himself believes— Fraud cannot presume— Faith is  Constancy's  Result— And assumes—from  Home— Cannot perish, though it fail Every second time— But defaced  Vicariously— For  Some  Other  Shame—
 These tested  Our  Horizon— Then disappeared As  Birds before achieving A  Latitude. Our  Retrospection of  Them A fixed  Delight, But our  Anticipation A  Dice—a  Doubt—
 Good to hide, and hear 'em hunt! Better, to be found, If one care to, that is, The  Fox fits the  Hound— Good to know, and not tell, Best, to know and tell, Can one find the rare  Ear Not too dull—
September's  Baccalaureate A combination is Of  Crickets -   Crows -  and  Retrospects And a dissembling  Breeze That hints without assuming -  An  Innuendo sear That makes the  Heart put up its  Fun And turn  Philosopher.
 Smiling back from  Coronation May be  Luxury— On the  Heads that started with us— Being's  Peasantry— Recognizing in  Procession Ones  We former knew— When  Ourselves were also dusty— Centuries ago— Had the  Triumph no  Conviction Of how many be— Stimulated—by the  Contrast— Unto  Misery—
 The  Zeroes—taught us— Phosphorous— We learned to like the  Fire By playing  Glaciers—when a  Boy— And  Tinder—guessed—by power Of  Opposite—to balance  Odd— If  White—a  Red—must be! Paralysis—our  Primer—dumb— Unto  Vitality!
Rearrange a ' Wife's' affection! When they dislocate my  Brain! Amputate my freckled  Bosom! Make me bearded like a man! Blush, my spirit, in thy  Fastness -  Blush, my unacknowledged clay -  Seven years of troth have taught thee More than  Wifehood every may! Love that never leaped its socket -  Trust entrenched in narrow pain -  Constancy thro' fire -  awarded -  Anguish -  bare of anodyne! Burden -  borne so far triumphant -  None suspect me of the crown, For  I wear the ' Thorns' till  Sunset -  Then -  my  Diadem put on. Big my  Secret but it's bandaged -  It will never get away Till the  Day its  Weary  Keeper Leads it through the  Grave to thee.
S T E P lightly on this narrow spot!	 The broadest land that grows	 Is not so ample as the breast	 These emerald seams enclose.	   Step lofty; for this name is told	        As far as cannon dwell,	 Or flag subsist, or fame export	 Her deathless syllable.
 The  Wind didn't come from the  Orchard—today— Further than that— Nor stop to play with the  Hay— Nor joggle a  Hat— He's a transitive fellow—very— Rely on that— If  He leave a  Bur at the door We know  He has climbed a  Fir— But the  Fir is  Where— Declare— Were you ever there? If  He brings  Odors of  Clovers— And that is  His business—not  Ours— Then  He has been with the  Mowers— Whetting away the  Hours To sweet pauses of  Hay— His  Way—of a  June  Day— If  He fling  Sand, and  Pebble— Little  Boys  Hats—and  Stubble— With an occasional  Steeple— And a hoarse " Get out of the way,  I say," Who'd be the fool to stay? Would you— Say— Would you be the fool to stay?
Not any sunny tone From any fervent zone Find entrance there -  Better a grave of  Balm Toward human nature's home -  And  Robins near -  Than a stupendous  Tomb Proclaiming to the  Gloom How dead we are -
 The  Judge is like the  Owl— I've heard my  Father tell— And  Owls do build in  Oaks— So here's an  Amber  Sill— That slanted in my  Path— When going to the  Barn— And if it serve  You for a  House— Itself is not in vain— About the price—'tis small— I only ask a  Tune At  Midnight— Let the  Owl select His favorite  Refrain.
To see her is a  Picture — To hear her is a  Tune — To know her an  Intemperance As innocent as  June — To know her not —  Affliction — To own her for a  Friend A warmth as near as if the  Sun Were shining in your  Hand.
 I sing to use the  Waiting My  Bonnet but to tie And shut the  Door unto my  House No more to do have  I Till  His best step approaching We journey to the  Day And tell each other how  We sung To  Keep the  Dark away.
 No  Notice gave  She, but a  Change— No  Message, but a  Sigh— For  Whom, the  Time did not suffice That  She should specify. She was not warm, though  Summer shone Nor scrupulous of cold Though  Rime by  Rime, the steady  Frost Upon  Her  Bosom piled— Of shrinking ways—she did not fright Though all the  Village looked— But held  Her gravity aloft— And met the gaze—direct— And when adjusted like a  Seed In careful fitted  Ground Unto the  Everlasting  Spring And hindered but a  Mound Her  Warm return, if so she chose— And  We—imploring drew— Removed our invitation by As  Some  She never knew—
' Twas comfort in her  Dying  Room To hear the living  Clock -  A short relief to have the wind Walk boldly up and knock -  Diversion from the  Dying  Theme To hear the children play -  But wrong the more That these could live And this of ours must die.
High from the earth  I heard a bird; He trod upon the trees As he esteemed them trifles, And then he spied a breeze, And situated softly Upon a pile of wind Which in a perturbation Nature had left behind. A joyous-going fellow I gathered from his talk, Which both of benediction And badinage partook, Without apparent burden, I learned, in leafy wood He was the faithful father Of a dependent brood; And this untoward transport His remedy for care,— A contrast to our respites. How different we are!
T H E  B A T is dun with wrinkled wings	   Like fallow article,	 And not a song pervades his lips,	   Or none perceptible.	   His small umbrella, quaintly halved,   Describing in the air	 An arc alike inscrutable,—	   Elate philosopher!	   Deputed from what firmament	   Of what astute abode, Empowered with what malevolence	   Auspiciously withheld.	   To his adroit  Creator	   Ascribe no less the praise;	 Beneficent, believe me,   His eccentricities.
' Tis true— They shut me in the  Cold— But then— Themselves were warm And could not know the feeling 'twas— Forget it— Lord—of  Them— Let not my  Witness hinder  Them In  Heavenly esteem— No  Paradise could be— Conferred Through  Their beloved  Blame— The  Harm  They did—was short— And since Myself—who bore it—do— Forgive  Them— Even as  Myself— Or else—forgive not me—
Not with a club, the  Heart is broken,	       Nor with a stone;	 A whip, so small you could not see it,	       I've known	   To lash the magic creature       Till it fell,	 Yet that whip's name too noble	       Then to tell.	   Magnanimous of bird	       By boy descried, To sing unto the stone	       Of which it died. Next:  The  Only  News  I know
Is it too late to touch you,  Dear? We this moment knew -  Love  Marine and  Love terrene -  Love celestial too -
 Not that  We did, shall be the test When  Act and  Will are done But what  Our  Lord infers  We would Had  We diviner been—
 The sweetest  Heresy received That  Man and  Woman know— Each  Other's  Convert— Though the  Faith accommodate but  Two— The  Churches are so frequent— The  Ritual—so small— The  Grace so unavoidable— To fail—is  Infidel—
The  Hills in  Purple syllables The  Day's  Adventures tell To little  Groups of  Continents Just going  Home from  School.
A little  Madness in the  Spring Is wholesome even for the  King, But  God be with the  Clown -  Who ponders this tremendous scene -  This whole  Experiment of  Green -  As if it were his own!
 He put the  Belt around my life I heard the  Buckle snap— And turned away, imperial, My  Lifetime folding up— Deliberate, as a  Duke would do A  Kingdom's  Title  Deed— Henceforth, a  Dedicated sort— A  Member of the  Cloud. Yet not too far to come at call— And do the little  Toils That make the  Circuit of the  Rest— And deal occasional smiles To lives that stoop to notice mine— And kindly ask it in— Whose invitation, know you not For  Whom  I must decline?
So proud she was to die    It made us all ashamed That what we cherished, so unknown    To her desire seemed. So satisfied to go    Where none of us should be, Immediately, that anguish stooped    Almost to jealousy.
 What did  They do since  I saw  Them? Were  They industrious? So many questions to put  Them Have  I the eagerness That could  I snatch  Their  Faces That could  Their lips reply Not till the last was answered Should  They start for the  Sky. Not if  Their  Party were waiting, Not if to talk with  Me Were to  Them now,  Homesickness After  Eternity. Not if the  Just suspect me And offer a  Reward Would  I restore my  Booty To that  Bold  Person,  God—
Whole  Gulfs -  of  Red, and  Fleets -  of  Red -  And  Crews -  of solid  Blood -  Did place upon the  West -   Tonight -  As 'twere specific  Ground -  And  They -  appointed  Creatures -  In  Authorized  Arrays -  Due -  promptly -  as a  Drama -  That bows -  and disappears -
I saw the wind within her I knew it blew for me — But she must buy my shelter I asked  Humility
Glory is that bright tragic thing That for an instant Means  Dominion -  Warms some poor name That never felt the  Sun, Gently replacing In oblivion -
 He told a homely tale And spotted it with tears— Upon his infant face was set The  Cicatrice of years— All crumpled was the cheek No other kiss had known Than flake of snow, divided with The  Redbreast of the  Barn— If  Mother—in the  Grave— Or  Father—on the  Sea— Or  Father in the  Firmament— Or  Brethren, had he— If  Commonwealth below, Or  Commonwealth above Have missed a  Barefoot  Citizen— I've ransomed it—alive—
 Least  Rivers—docile to some sea. My  Caspian—thee.
Whether they have forgotten Or are forgetting now Or never remembered -  Safer not to know -  Miseries of conjecture Are a softer woe Than a  Fact of  Iron Hardened with  I know -
Publication—is the  Auction Of the  Mind of  Man— Poverty—be justifying For so foul a thing Possibly—but  We—would rather From  Our  Garret go White— Unto the  White  Creator— Than invest— Our  Snow— Thought belong to  Him who gave it— Then—to  Him  Who bear Its  Corporeal illustration— Sell The  Royal  Air— In the  Parcel— Be the  Merchant Of the  Heavenly  Grace— But reduce no  Human  Spirit To  Disgrace of  Price—
 When  I hoped,  I recollect Just the place  I stood— At a  Window facing  West— Roughest  Air—was good— Not a  Sleet could bite me— Not a frost could cool— Hope it was that kept me warm— Not  Merino shawl— When  I feared— I recollect Just the  Day it was— Worlds were lying out to  Sun— Yet how  Nature froze— Icicles upon my soul Prickled  Blue and  Cool— Bird went praising everywhere— Only  Me—was still— And the  Day that  I despaired— This—if  I forget Nature will—that it be  Night After  Sun has set— Darkness intersect her face— And put out her eye— Nature hesitate—before Memory and  I—
 Her—"last  Poems"— Poets—ended— Silver—perished—w ith her  Tongue— Not on  Record—bubbled other, Flute—or  Woman— So divine— Not unto its  Summer— Morning Robin—uttered  Half the  Tune— Gushed too free for the  Adoring— From the  Anglo- Florentine— Late—the  Praise—' Tis dull—conferring On the  Head too  High to  Crown— Diadem—or  Ducal  Showing— Be its  Grave—sufficient sign— Nought—that  We— No  Poet's  Kinsman— Suffocate—with easy woe— What, and if,  Ourself a  Bridegroom— Put  Her down—in  Italy?
 Never for  Society He shall seek in vain— Who  His own acquaintance Cultivate— Of  Men Wiser  Men may weary— But the  Man within Never knew  Satiety— Better entertain Than could  Border  Ballad— Or  Biscayan  Hymn— Neither introduction Need  You—unto  Him—
There is no  Silence in the  Earth -  so silent As that endured Which uttered, would discourage  Nature And haunt the  World.
 Should you but fail at— Sea— In sight of me— Or doomed lie— Next  Sun—to die— Or rap—at  Paradise—unheard I'd harass  God Until he let you in!
 Perhaps you'd like to buy a flower, But  I could never sell— If you would like to borrow, Until the  Daffodil Unties her yellow  Bonnet Beneath the village door, Until the  Bees, from  Clover rows Their  Hock, and  Sherry, draw, Why,  I will lend until just then, But not an hour more!
If all the griefs  I am to have Would only come today, I am so happy  I believe They'd laugh and run away. If all the joys  I am to have Would only come today, They could not be so big as this That happens to me now.
A  Sickness of this  World it most occasions When  Best  Men die. A  Wishfulness their far  Condition To occupy. A  Chief indifference, as  Foreign A  World must be Themselves forsake -  contented, For  Deity.
 The  Spirit is the  Conscious  Ear. We actually  Hear When  We inspect—that's audible— That is admitted— Here— For other  Services—as  Sound— There hangs a smaller  Ear Outside the  Castle—that  Contain— The other—only— Hear—
I hide myself within my flower, That wearing on your breast, You, unsuspecting, wear me too - And angels know the rest. I hide myself within my flower, That, fading from your vase, You, unsuspecting, feel for me Almost a loneliness.
 The  Guest is gold and crimson— An  Opal guest and gray— Of  Ermine is his doublet— His  Capuchin gay— He reaches town at nightfall— He stops at every door— Who looks for him at morning I pray him too—explore The  Lark's pure territory— Or the  Lapwing's shore!
 The hallowing of  Pain Like hallowing of  Heaven, Obtains at a corporeal cost— The  Summit is not given To  Him who strives severe At middle of the  Hill— But  He who has achieved the  Top— All—is the price of  All—
M Y cocoon tightens, colors tease,	 I 'm feeling for the air;	 A dim capacity for wings	 Degrades the dress  I wear.	   A power of butterfly must be	 The aptitude to fly,	 Meadows of majesty concedes	 And easy sweeps of sky.	   So  I must baffle at the hint	 And cipher at the sign,	 And make much blunder, if at last	 I take the clew divine.
Down  Time's quaint stream Without an oar We are enforced to sail Our  Port a secret Our  Perchance a  Gale What  Skipper would Incur the  Risk What  Buccaneer would ride Without a surety from the  Wind Or schedule of the  Tide -
 Our little  Kinsmen—after  Rain In plenty may be seen, A  Pink and  Pulpy multitude The tepid  Ground upon. A needless life, it seemed to me Until a little  Bird As to a  Hospitality Advanced and breakfasted. As  I of  He, so  God of  Me I pondered, may have judged, And left the little  Angle  Worm With  Modesties enlarged.
Proud of my broken heart, since thou didst break it. Proud of the pain,  I did not feel? till thee. Proud of my night, since thou, with moons, dos't shake it. Not to partake thy passion, -my humility Thou can'st not boast, like  Jesus, drunken without companion Was the strong cup of anguish brewed for the  Nazarene Thou can'st not pierce tradition with the peerless puncture, See!  I usurped thy crucifix to honor mine!
 Out of sight?  What of that? See the  Bird—reach it! Curve by  Curve— Sweep by  Sweep— Round the  Steep  Air— Danger!  What is that to  Her? Better 'tis to fail—there— Than debate—here— Blue is  Blue—the  World through— Amber— Amber— Dew&mda sh; Dew— Seek— Friend—and see— Heaven is shy of  Earth—that's all— Bashful  Heaven—thy  Lovers small— Hide—too—from thee—
Spring comes on the  World -  I sight the  Aprils -  Hueless to me until thou come As, till the  Bee Blossoms stand negative, Touched to  Conditions By a  Hum.
 Of  Tolling  Bell  I ask the cause?" A  Soul has gone to  Heaven" I'm answered in a lonesome tone— Is  Heaven then a  Prison? That  Bells should ring till all should know A  Soul had gone to  Heaven Would seem to me the more the way A  Good  News should be given.
 No  Romance sold unto Could so enthrall a  Man As the perusal of His  Individual  One—' Tis  Fiction's— When 'tis small enough To  Credit—' Tisn't true!
 She dwelleth in the  Ground— Where  Daffodils—abide— Her  Maker— Her  Metropolis— The  Universe— Her  Maid— To fetch  Her  Grace—and  Hue— And  Fairness—and  Renown— The  Firmament's— To  Pluck  Her— And fetch  Her  Thee—be mine—
 So set its  Sun in  Thee What  Day be dark to me— What  Distance—far— So  I the  Ships may see That touch—how seldomly— Thy  Shore?
The words the happy say Are paltry melody But those the silent feel Are beautiful—
 Herein a  Blossom lies— A  Sepulchre, between— Cross it, and overcome the  Bee— Remain—'tis but a  Rind.
 Over the fence— Strawberries—grow— Over the fence— I could climb—if  I tried,  I know— Berries are nice! But—if  I stained my  Apron— God would certainly scold! Oh, dear,— I guess if  He were a  Boy— He'd—climb—if  He could!
[first version] The  Wind begun to knead the  Grass— As  Women do a  Dough— He flung a  Hand full at the  Plain— A  Hand full at the  Sky— The  Leaves unhooked themselves from  Trees— And started all abroad— The  Dust did scoop itself like  Hands— And throw away the  Road— The  Wagons—quickened on the  Street— The  Thunders gossiped low— The  Lightning showed a  Yellow  Head— And then a livid  Toe— The  Birds put up the  Bars to  Nests— The  Cattle flung to  Barns— Then came one drop of  Giant  Rain— And then, as if the  Hands That held the  Dams—had parted hold— The  Waters  Wrecked the  Sky— But overlooked my  Father's  House— Just  Quartering a  Tree—[second version] The  Wind begun to rock the  Grass With threatening  Tunes and low— He threw a  Menace at the  Earth— A  Menace at the  Sky. The  Leaves unhooked themselves from  Trees— And started all abroad The  Dust did scoop itself like  Hands And threw away the  Road. The  Wagons quickened on the  Streets The  Thunder hurried slow— The  Lightning showed a  Yellow  Beak And then a livid  Claw. The  Birds put up the  Bars to  Nests— The  Cattle fled to  Barns— There came one drop of  Giant  Rain And then as if the  Hands That held the  Dams had parted hold The  Waters  Wrecked the  Sky, But overlooked my  Father's  House— Just quartering a  Tree—
These  Fevered  Days -  to take them to the  Forest Where  Waters cool around the mosses crawl -  And shade is all that devastates the stillness Seems it sometimes this would be all -
' Tis little  I—could care for  Pearls— Who own the ample sea— Or  Brooches—when the  Emperor— With  Rubies—pelteth me— Or  Gold—who am the  Prince of  Mines— Or  Diamonds—when have  I A  Diadem to fit a  Dom— Continual upon me—
 They won't frown always—some sweet  Day When  I forget to tease— They'll recollect how cold  I looked And how  I just said " Please." Then  They will hasten to the  Door To call the little  Girl Who cannot thank  Them for the  Ice That filled the lisping full.
 No  Bobolink—reverse  His  Singing When the only  Tree Ever  He minded occupying By the  Farmer be— Clove to the  Root— His  Spacious  Future— Best  Horizon—gone— Whose  Music be  His Only  Anodyne— Brave  Bobolink—
If  Nature smiles -  the  Mother must I'm sure, at many a whim Of  Her eccentric  Family -  Is  She so much to blame?
 Tho' my destiny be  Fustian— Hers be damask fine— Tho' she wear a silver apron— I, a less divine— Still, my little  Gypsy being I would far prefer, Still, my little sunburnt bosom To her  Rosier, For, when  Frosts, their punctual fingers On her forehead lay, You and  I, and  Dr.  Holland, Bloom  Eternally! Roses of a steadfast summer In a steadfast land, Where no  Autumn lifts her pencil— And no  Reapers stand!
 The  Red— Blaze—is the  Morning— The  Violet—is  Noon— The  Yellow— Day—is falling— And after that—is none— But  Miles of  Sparks—at  Evening— Reveal the  Width that burned— The  Territory  Argent—that Never yet—consumed—
 No  Man can compass a  Despair— As round a  Goalless  Road No faster than a  Mile at once The  Traveller proceed— Unconscious of the  Width— Unconscious that the  Sun Be setting on  His progress— So accurate the  One At estimating  Pain— Whose own—has just begun— His ignorance—the  Angel That pilot  Him along—
 Through lane it lay—through bramble— Through clearing and through wood— Banditti often passed us Upon the lonely road. The wolf came peering curious— The owl looked puzzled down— The serpent's satin figure Glid stealthily along— The tempests touched our garments— The lightning's poinards gleamed— Fierce from the  Crag above us The hungry  Vulture screamed— The satyr's fingers beckoned— The valley murmured " Come"— These were the mates— This was the road Those children fluttered home.
To mend each tattered  Faith There is a needle fair Though no appearance indicate ' Tis threaded in the  Air  And though it do not wear As if it never  Tore' Tis very comfortable indeed And spacious as before
 Where  Thou art—that—is  Home— Cashmere—or  Calvary—the same— Degree—or  Shame— I scarce esteem  Location's  Name— So  I may  Come— What  Thou dost—is  Delight— Bondage as  Play—be sweet— Imprisonment— Content— And  Sentence— Sacrament— Just  We two—meet— Where  Thou art not—is  Woe— Tho'  Bands of  Spices—row— What  Thou dost not— Despair— Tho'  Gabriel—praise me— Sire—
 The  Court is far away— No  Umpire—have  I— My  Sovereign is offended— To gain his grace— I'd die! I'll seek his royal feet— I'll say— Remember— King— Thou shalt—thyself—one day—a  Child— Implore a larger—thing— That  Empire—is of  Czars— As small—they say—as  I— Grant me—that day—the royalty— To intercede—for  Thee—
His bill an auger is, His head, a cap and frill. He laboreth at every tree,-- A worm his utmost goal.
 I'll send the feather from my  Hat! Who knows—but at the sight of that My  Sovereign will relent? As trinket—worn by faded  Child— Confronting eyes long—comforted— Blisters the  Adamant!
' Tis  Opposites—entice— Deformed  Men—ponder  Grace— Bright fires—the  Blanketless— The  Lost— Day's face— The  Blind—esteem it be Enough  Estate—to see— The  Captive—strangles new— For deeming— Beggars—play— To lack—enamor  Thee— Tho' the  Divinity— Be only Me—
 No matter—now— Sweet— But when  I'm  Earl— Won't you wish you'd spoken To that dull  Girl? Trivial a  Word—just— Trivial—a  Smile— But won't you wish you'd spared one When  I'm  Earl? I shan't need it—then— Crests—will do— Eagles on my  Buckles— On my  Belt—too— Ermine—my familiar  Gown— Say— Sweet—then Won't you wish you'd smiled—just— Me upon?
Remembrance has a  Rear and  Front - ' Tis something like a  House -  It has a  Garret also For  Refuse and the  Mouse. Besides the deepest  Cellar That ever  Mason laid -  Look to it by its  Fathoms Ourselves be not pursued -
 I should have been too glad,  I see— Too lifted—for the scant degree Of  Life's penurious  Round— My little  Circuit would have shamed This new  Circumference—have blamed— The homelier time behind. I should have been too saved— I see— Too rescued— Fear too dim to me That  I could spell the  Prayer I knew so perfect—yesterday— That  Scalding  One— Sabachthani— Recited fluent—here— Earth would have been too much— I see— And  Heaven—not enough for me— I should have had the  Joy Without the  Fear—to justify— The  Palm—without the  Calvary— So  Savior— Crucify— Defeat—whets  Victory—they say— The  Reefs—in old  Gethsemane— Endear the  Coast—beyond!' Tis  Beggars— Banquets—can define—' Tis  Parching—vitalizes  Wine—" Faith" bleats—to understand!
Publication -- is the  Auction Of the  Mind of  Man -- Poverty -- be justifying For so foul a thing Possibly -- but  We -- would rather From  Our  Garret go White --  Unto the  White  Creator -- Than invest --  Our  Snow -- Thought belong to  Him who gave it -- Then -- to  Him  Who bear Its  Corporeal illustration --  Sell The  Royal  Air -- In the  Parcel --  Be the  Merchant Of the  Heavenly  Grace -- But reduce no  Human  Spirit To  Disgrace of  Price --
 I could not drink it,  Sweet, Till  You had tasted first, Though cooler than the  Water was The  Thoughtfullness of  Thirst.
 Nature and  God— I neither knew Yet  Both so well knew me They startled, like  Executors Of  My identity. Yet  Neither told—that  I could learn— My  Secret as secure As  Herschel's private interest Or  Mercury's affair—
His  Heart was darker than the starless night For that there is a morn But in this black  Receptacle Can be no  Bode of  Dawn
 Like  Flowers, that heard the news of  Dews, But never deemed the dripping prize Awaited their—low  Brows— Or  Bees—that thought the  Summer's name Some rumor of  Delirium, No  Summer—could—for  Them— Or  Arctic  Creatures, dimly stirred— By  Tropic  Hint—some  Travelled  Bird Imported to the  Wood— Or  Wind's bright signal to the  Ear— Making that homely, and severe, Contented, known, before— The  Heaven—unexpected come, To  Lives that thought the  Worshipping A too presumptuous  Psalm—
A  Spider sewed at  Night Without a  Light Upon an  Arc of  White. If  Ruff it was of  Dame Or  Shroud of  Gnome Himself himself inform. Of  Immortality His  Strategy Was  Physiognomy.
 Glowing is her  Bonnet, Glowing is her  Cheek, Glowing is her  Kirtle, Yet she cannot speak. Better as the  Daisy From the  Summer hill Vanish unrecorded Save by tearful rill— Save by loving sunrise Looking for her face. Save by feet unnumbered Pausing at the place.
 More  Life—went out—when  He went Than  Ordinary  Breath— Lit with a finer  Phosphor— Requiring in the  Quench— A  Power of  Renowned  Cold, The  Climate of the  Grave A  Temperature just adequate So  Anthracite, to live— For some—an  Ampler  Zero— A  Frost more needle keen Is necessary, to reduce The  Ethiop within. Others—extinguish easier— A  Gnat's minutest  Fan Sufficient to obliterate A  Tract of  Citizen— Whose  Peat lift—amply vivid— Ignores the solemn  News That  Popocatapel exists— Or  Etna's  Scarlets,  Choose—
 When  Bells stop ringing— Church—begins The  Positive—of  Bells— When  Cogs—stop—that's  Circumference— The  Ultimate—of  Wheels.
They dropped like flakes, they dropped like stars, Like petals from a rose, When suddenly across the  June A wind with fingers goes. They perished in the seamless grass, — No eye could find the place; But  God on his repealless list Can summon every face.
 What shall  I do when the  Summer troubles— What, when the  Rose is ripe— What when the  Eggs fly off in  Music From the  Maple  Keep? What shall  I do when the  Skies a'chirrup Drop a  Tune on me— When the  Bee hangs all  Noon in the  Buttercup What will become of me? Oh, when the  Squirrel fills  His  Pockets And the  Berries stare How can  I bear their jocund  Faces Thou from  Here, so far?' Twouldn't afflict a  Robin— All  His  Goods have  Wings— I—do not fly, so wherefore My  Perennial  Things?
 Of  Consciousness, her awful  Mate The  Soul cannot be rid— As easy the secreting her Behind the  Eyes of  God. The deepest hid is sighted first And scant to  Him the  Crowd— What triple  Lenses burn upon The  Escapade from  God—
 The  Gentian weaves her fringes— The  Maple's loom is red— My departing blossoms      Obviate parade. A brief, but patient illness— An hour to prepare, And one below this morning Is where the angels are— It was a short procession, The  Bobolink was there— An aged  Bee addressed us— And then we knelt in prayer— We trust that she was willing— We ask that we may be. Summer— Sister— Seraph! Let us go with thee! In the name of the  Bee— And of the  Butterfly— And of the  Breeze— Amen!
' Tomorrow' -  whose location The  Wise deceives Though its hallucination Is last that leaves -  Tomorrow -  thou  Retriever Of every tare -  Of  Alibi art thou Or ownest where?
 She went as quiet as the  Dew From an  Accustomed flower. Not like the  Dew, did she return At the  Accustomed hour! She dropt as softly as a star From out my summer's  Eve— Less skillful than  Le  Verriere It's sorer to believe!
He ate and drank the precious  Words -  His  Spirit grew robust -  He knew no more that he was poor, Nor that his frame was  Dust -  He danced along the dingy  Days And this  Bequest of  Wings Was but a  Book -   What  Liberty A loosened spirit brings -
Sometimes with the  Heart Seldom with the  Soul Scarcer once with the  Might Few -  love at all.
The reticent volcano keeps His never slumbering plan -  Confided are his projects pink To no precarious man. If nature will not tell the tale Jehovah told to her Can human nature not survive Without a listener? Admonished by her buckled lips Let every babbler be The only secret people keep Is  Immortality.
How lonesome the  Wind must feel  Nights -  When people have put out the  Lights And everything that has an  Inn Closes the shutter and goes in -  How pompous the  Wind must feel  Noons Stepping to incorporeal  Tunes Correcting errors of the sky And clarifying scenery How mighty the  Wind must feel  Morns Encamping on a thousand dawns Espousing each and spurning all Then soaring to his  Temple  Tall -
 The face  I carry with me—last— When  I go out of  Time— To take my  Rank—by—in the  West— That face—will just be thine— I'll hand it to the  Angel— That— Sir—was my  Degree— In  Kingdoms—you have heard the  Raised— Refer to—possibly. He'll take it—scan it—step aside— Return—with such a crown As  Gabriel—never capered at— And beg me put it on— And then—he'll turn me round and round— To an admiring sky— As one that bore her  Master's name— Sufficient  Royalty!
Escape is such a thankful  Word I often in the  Night Consider it unto myself No spectacle in sight Escape -  it is the  Basket In which the  Heart is caught When down some awful  Battlement The rest of  Life is dropt - ' Tis not to sight the savior -  It is to be the saved -  And that is why  I lay my  Head Upon this trusty word -
 The  Doomed—regard the  Sunrise With different  Delight— Because—when next it burns abroad They doubt to witness it— The  Man—to die—tomorrow— Harks for the  Meadow  Bird— Because its  Music stirs the  Axe That clamors for his head— Joyful—to whom the  Sunrise Precedes  Enamored— Day— Joyful—for whom the  Meadow  Bird Has ought but  Elegy!
 I think the  Hemlock likes to stand Upon a  Marge of  Snow— It suits his own  Austerity— And satisfies an awe That men, must slake in  Wilderness— And in the  Desert—cloy— An instinct for the  Hoar, the  Bald— Lapland's—necessity— The  Hemlock's nature thrives—on cold— The  Gnash of  Northern winds Is sweetest nutriment—to him— His best  Norwegian  Wines— To satin  Races—he is nought— But  Children on the  Don, Beneath his  Tabernacles, play, And  Dnieper  Wrestlers, run.
Some  Days retired from the rest In soft distinction lie The  Day that a  Companion came Or was obliged to die
Oh  Shadow on the  Grass, Art thou a  Step or not? Go make thee fair my  Candidate My nominated  Heart -  Oh  Shadow on the  Grass While  I delay to guess Some other thou wilt consecrate -  Oh  Unelected  Face -
 The  Martyr  Poets—did not tell— But wrought their  Pang in syllable— That when their mortal name be numb— Their mortal fate—encourage  Some— The  Martyr  Painters—never spoke— Bequeathing—rather—to their  Work— That when their conscious fingers cease— Some seek in  Art—the  Art of  Peace—
Declaiming  Waters none may dread -  But  Waters that are still Are so for that most fatal cause In  Nature -  they are full -
 Let  Us play  Yesterday— I—the  Girl at school— You—and  Eternity—the Untold  Tale— Easing my famine At my  Lexicon— Logarithm—had  I—for  Drink—' Twas a dry  Wine— Somewhat different—must be— Dreams tint the  Sleep— Cunning  Reds of  Morning Make the  Blind—leap— Still at the  Egg-life— Chafing the  Shell— When you troubled the  Ellipse— And the  Bird fell— Manacles be dim—they say— To the new  Free— Liberty— Commoner— N ever could—to me—' Twas my last gratitude When  I slept—at night—' Twas the first  Miracle Let in—with  Light— Can the  Lark resume the  Shell— Easier—for the  Sky— Wouldn't  Bonds hurt more Than  Yesterday? Wouldn't  Dungeons sorer frate On the  Man—free— Just long enough to taste— Then—doomed new— God of the  Manacle As of the  Free— Take not my  Liberty Away from  Me—
 This  Merit hath the worst— It cannot be again— When  Fate hath taunted last And thrown  Her furthest  Stone— The  Maimed may pause, and breathe, And glance securely round— The  Deer attracts no further Than it resists—the  Hound—
' And with what body do they come?' -  Then they do come -   Rejoice! What  Door -   What  Hour -   Run -  run -   My  Soul! Illuminate the  House!' Body!'  Then real -  a  Face and  Eyes -  To know that it is them! Paul knew the  Man that knew the  News -  He passed through  Bethlehem -
Of so divine a  Loss We enter but the  Gain, Indemnity for  Loneliness That such a  Bliss has been.
 The  Birds begun at  Four o'clock— Their period for  Dawn— A  Music numerous as space— But neighboring as  Noon— I could not count their  Force— Their  Voices did expend As  Brook by  Brook bestows itself To multiply the  Pond. Their  Witnesses were not— Except occasional man— In homely industry arrayed— To overtake the  Morn— Nor was it for applause— That  I could ascertain— But independent  Ecstasy Of  Deity and  Men— By  Six, the  Flood had done— No  Tumult there had been Of  Dressing, or  Departure— And yet the  Band was gone— The  Sun engrossed the  East— The  Day controlled the  World— The  Miracle that introduced Forgotten, as fulfilled.
 Size circumscribes—it has no room For petty furniture— The  Giant tolerates no  Gnat For  Ease of  Gianture— Repudiates it, all the more— Because intrinsic size Ignores the possibility Of  Calumnies—or  Flies.
 To know just how  He suffered—would be dear— To know if any  Human eyes were near To whom  He could entrust  His wavering gaze— Until it settle broad—on  Paradise— To know if  He was patient—part content— Was  Dying as  He thought—or different— Was it a pleasant  Day to die— And did the  Sunshine face his way— What was  His furthest mind— Of  Home—or  God— Or what the  Distant say— At news that  He ceased  Human  Nature Such a  Day— And  Wishes— Had  He  Any— Just  His  Sigh— Accented— Had been legible—to  Me— And was  He  Confident until Ill fluttered out—in  Everlasting  Well— And if  He spoke— What name was  Best— What last What  One broke off with At the  Drowsiest— Was  He afraid—or tranquil— Might  He know How  Conscious  Consciousness—could grow— Till  Love that was—and  Love too best to be— Meet—and the  Junction be  Eternity
Dare you see a  Soul at the  White  Heat?      Then crouch within the door --      Red -- is the  Fire's common tint --      But when the vivid  Ore      Has vanquished  Flame's conditions,      It quivers from the  Forge      Without a color, but the light      Of unanointed  Blaze.      Least  Village has its  Blacksmith      Whose  Anvil's even ring      Stands symbol for the finer  Forge      That soundless tugs -- within --      Re[f]ining these impatient  Ores      With  Hammer, and with  Blaze      Untile the  Designated  Light      Repudiate the  Forge
 Like her the  Saints retire, In their  Chapeaux of fire, Martial as she! Like her the  Evenings steal Purple and  Cochineal After the  Day!" Departed"—both&mdash ;they say!i.e. gathered away, Not found, Argues the  Aster still— Reasons the  Daffodil Profound!
 The  Way  I read a  Letter's—this—' Tis first— I lock the  Door— And push it with my fingers—next— For transport it be sure— And then  I go the furthest off To counteract a knock— Then draw my little  Letter forth And slowly pick the lock— Then—glancing narrow, at the  Wall— And narrow at the floor For firm  Conviction of a  Mouse Not exorcised before— Peruse how infinite  I am To no one that  You—know— And sigh for lack of  Heaven—but not The  Heaven  God bestow—
Longing is like the  Seed That wrestles in the  Ground, Believing if it intercede It shall at length be found. The  Hour, and the  Clime -  Each  Circumstance unknown, What  Constancy must be achieved Before it see the  Sun!
A  Sloop of  Amber slips away Upon an  Ether  Sea, And wrecks in  Peace a  Purple  Tar, The  Son of  Ecstasy -
 When the  Astronomer stops seeking For his  Pleiad's  Face— When the lone  British  Lady Forsakes the  Arctic  Race When to his  Covenant  Needle The  Sailor doubting turns— It will be amply early To ask what treason means.
Let me not mar that perfect  Dream By an  Auroral stain But so adjust my daily  Night That it will come again. Not when we know, the  Power accosts -  The  Garment of  Surprise Was all our timid  Mother wore At  Home -  in  Paradise.
 This heart that broke so long— These feet that never flagged— This faith that watched for star in vain, Give gently to the dead— Hound cannot overtake the  Hare That fluttered panting, here— Nor any schoolboy rob the nest Tenderness builded there.
The  Butterfly in honored  Dust Assuredly will lie But none will pass the  Catacomb So chastened as the  Fly -
God permit industrious angels Afternoons to play. I met one, -- forgot my school-mates, All, for him, straightaway. God calls home the angels promptly At the setting sun; I missed mine.  How dreary marbles, After playing the  Crown!
 When  One has given up  One's life The parting with the rest Feels easy, as when  Day lets go Entirely the  West The  Peaks, that lingered last Remain in  Her regret As scarcely as the  Iodine Upon the  Cataract.
 Whether my bark went down at sea— Whether she met with gales— Whether to isles enchanted She bent her docile sails— By what mystic mooring She is held today— This is the errand of the eye Out upon the  Bay.
 Mine—by the  Right of the  White  Election! Mine—by the  Royal  Seal! Mine—by the  Sign in the  Scarlet prison— Bars—cannot conceal! Mine—here—in  Vision—and in  Veto! Mine—by the  Grave's  Repeal— Tilted— Confirmed— Delirious  Charter! Mine—long as  Ages steal!
His voice decrepit was with  Joy -  Her words did totter so How old the  News of  Love must be To make  Lips elderly That purled a moment since with  Glee -  Is it  Delight or  Woe -  Or  Terror -  that do decorate This livid interview -
 This was in the  White of the  Year— That—was in the  Green— Drifts were as difficult then to think As  Daisies now to be seen— Looking back is best that is left Or if it be—before— Retrospection is  Prospect's half, Sometimes, almost more.
F A T E slew him, but he did not drop; She felled—he did not fall— Impaled him on her fiercest stakes— He neutralized them all. She stung him, sapped his firm advance, But, when her worst was done, And he, unmoved, regarded her, Acknowledged him a man.
Good night! which put the candle out? A jealous zephyr, not a doubt.    Ah! friend, you little knew How long at that celestial wick The angels labored diligent;    Extinguished, now, for you! It might have been the lighthouse spark Some sailor, rowing in the dark,    Had importuned to see! It might have been the waning lamp That lit the drummer from the camp    To purer reveille!
 Jesus! thy  Crucifix Enable thee to guess The smaller size! Jesus! thy second face Mind thee in  Paradise Of ours!
 I showed her  Heights she never saw—" Would'st  Climb,"  I said? She said—" Not so"—" With me—"  I said— With me? I showed her  Secrets— Morning's  Nest— The  Rope the  Nights were put across— And now—" Would'st have me for a  Guest?" She could not find her  Yes— And then,  I brake my life— And  Lo, A  Light, for her, did solemn glow, The larger, as her face withdrew— And could she, further, " No"?
 There is a morn by men unseen— Whose maids upon remoter green Keep their  Seraphic  May— And all day long, with dance and game, And gambol  I may never name— Employ their holiday. Here to light measure, move the feet Which walk no more the village street— Nor by the wood are found— Here are the birds that sought the sun When last year's distaff idle hung And summer's brows were bound. Ne'er saw  I such a wondrous scene— Ne'er such a ring on such a green— Nor so serene array— As if the stars some summer night Should swing their cups of  Chrysolite— And revel till the day— Like thee to dance—like thee to sing— People upon the mystic green— I ask, each new  May  Morn. I wait thy far, fantastic bells— Unto the different dawn!
 The  Beggar  Lad—dies early— It's  Somewhat in the  Cold— And  Somewhat in the  Trudging feet— And haply, in the  World— The  Cruel—smiling—bowing  World— That took its  Cambric  Way— Nor heard the timid cry for " Bread"—" Sweet  Lady— Charity"— Among  Redeemed  Children If  Trudging feet may stand The  Barefoot time forgotten—so— The  Sleet—the bitter  Wind— The  Childish  Hands that teased for  Pence Lifted adoring—them— To  Him whom never  Ragged— Coat Did supplicate in vain—
Witchcraft has not a pedigree,‘ Tis early as our breath, And mourners meet it going out The moment of our death.
 The  Body grows without— The more convenient way— That if the  Spirit—like to hide Its  Temple stands, alway, Ajar—secure—inviting&md ash; It never did betray The  Soul that asked its shelter In solemn honesty
 His  Feet are shod with  Gauze— His  Helmet, is of  Gold, His  Breast, a  Single  Onyx With  Chrysophrase, inlaid. His  Labor is a  Chant— His  Idleness—a  Tune— Oh, for a  Bee's experience Of  Clovers, and of  Noon!
Air has no  Residence, no  Neighbor, No  Ear, no  Door, No  Apprehension of  Another Oh,  Happy  Air! Ethereal  Guest at e'en an  Outcast's  Pillow -  Essential  Host, in  Life's faint, wailing  Inn, Later than  Light thy  Consciousness accost me Till it depart, persuading  Mine -
 We see— Comparatively— The  Thing so towering high We could not grasp its segment Unaided— Yesterday—  This  Morning's finer  Verdict— Makes scarcely worth the toil— A furrow— Our  Cordillera— Our  Apennine—a  Knoll— Perhaps 'tis kindly—done us— The  Anguish—and the loss— The wrenching—for  His  Firmament The  Thing belonged to us— To spare these  Striding  Spirits Some  Morning of  Chagrin— The waking in a  Gnat's—embrace— Our  Giants—further on—
To flee from memory Had we the  Wings Many would fly Inured to slower things Birds with surprise Would scan the cowering  Van Of men escaping From the mind of man
He preached upon ' Breadth' till it argued him narrow -  The  Broad are too broad to define And of ' Truth' until it proclaimed him a  Liar -  The  Truth never flaunted a  Sign -  Simplicity fled from his counterfeit presence As  Gold the  Pyrites would shun -  What confusion would cover the innocent  Jesus To meet so enabled a  Man!
' Heavenly  Father' -  take to thee The supreme iniquity Fashioned by thy candid  Hand In a moment contraband -  Though to trust us -  seems to us More respectful -  ' We are  Dust' -  We apologize to thee For thine own  Duplicity -
 The  Lady feeds  Her little  Bird At rarer intervals— The little  Bird would not dissent But meekly recognize The  Gulf between the  Hand and  Her And crumbless and afar And fainting, on  Her yellow  Knee Fall softly, and adore—
An  Antiquated  Tree Is cherished of the  Crow Because that  Junior  Foliage is disrespectful now To venerable  Birds Whose  Corporation  Coat Would decorate  Oblivion's Remotest  Consulate.
I noticed  People disappeared When but a little child -  Supposed they visited remote Or settled  Regions wild -  But did because they died A  Fact withheld the little child -
Perhaps  I asked too large -- I take -- no less than skies -- For  Earths, grow thick as Berries, in my native town -- My  Basked holds -- just --  Firmaments -- Those -- dangle easy -- on my arm, But smaller bundles --  Cram.
 The  World—feels  Dusty When  We stop to  Die— We want the  Dew—then— Honors—taste dry— Flags—vex a  Dying face— But the least  Fan Stirred by a friend's  Hand— Cools—like the  Rain— Mine be the  Ministry When they  Thirst comes— And  Hybla  Balms— Dews of  Thessaly, to fetch—
Silence is all we dread. There's  Ransom in a  Voice -  But  Silence is  Infinity. Himself have not a face.
 The  Poets light but  Lamps— Themselves—go out— The  Wicks they stimulate— If vital  Light Inhere as do the  Suns— Each  Age a  Lens Disseminating their Circumference—
 Knows how to forget! But could  It teach it? Easiest of  Arts, they say When one learn how Dull  Hearts have died In the  Acquisition Sacrificed for  Science Is common, though, now— I went to  School But was not wiser Globe did not teach it Nor  Logarithm  Show" How to forget"! Say—some— Philosopher ! Ah, to be erudite Enough to know! Is it in a  Book? So,  I could buy it— Is it like a  Planet? Telescopes would know— If it be invention It must have a  Patent. Rabbi of the  Wise  Book Don't you know?
 Ourselves were wed one summer—dear— Your  Vision—was in  June— And when  Your little  Lifetime failed, I wearied—too—of mine— And overtaken in the  Dark— Where  You had put me down— By  Some one carrying a  Light— I—too—received the  Sign.' Tis true— Our  Futures different lay— Your  Cottage—faced the sun— While  Oceans—and the  North must be— On every side of mine' Tis true,  Your  Garden led the  Bloom, For mine—in  Frosts—was sown— And yet, one  Summer, we were  Queens— But  You—were crowned in  June—
 Many cross the  Rhine In this cup of mine. Sip old  Frankfort air From my brown  Cigar.
 There is an arid  Pleasure— As different from  Joy— As  Frost is different from  Dew— Like element—are they— Yet one—rejoices  Flowers— And one—the  Flowers abhor— The finest  Honey—curdled— Is worthless—to the  Bee—
 The  Day undressed— Herself— Her  Garter—was of  Gold— Her  Petticoat—of  Purple plain— Her  Dimities—as old Exactly—as the  World— And yet the newest  Star— Enrolled upon the  Hemisphere Be wrinkled—much as  Her— Too near to  God—to pray— Too near to  Heaven—to fear— The  Lady of the  Occident Retired without a care— Her  Candle so expire The flickering be seen On  Ball of  Mast in  Bosporus— And  Dome—and  Window  Pane—
 Wolfe demanded during dying" Which obtain the  Day"?" General, the  British"—" Easy" Answered  Wolfe "to die" Montcalm, his opposing  Spirit Rendered with a smile" Sweet" said he "my own  Surrender Liberty's beguile"
 Whose are the little beds,  I asked Which in the valleys lie? Some shook their heads, and others smiled— And no one made reply. Perhaps they did not hear,  I said, I will inquire again— Whose are the beds—the tiny beds So thick upon the plain?' Tis  Daisy, in the shortest— A little further on— Nearest the door—to wake the  Ist— Little  Leontoden.' Tis  Iris,  Sir, and  Aster— Anemone, and  Bell— Bartsia, in the blanket red— And chubby  Daffodil. Meanwhile, at many cradles Her busy foot she plied— Humming the quaintest lullaby That ever rocked a child. Hush!  Epigea wakens! The  Crocus stirs her lids— Rhodora's cheek is crimson, She's dreaming of the woods! Then turning from them reverent— Their bedtime 'tis, she said— The  Bumble bees will wake them When  April woods are red.
 Soil of  Flint, if steady tilled— Will refund by  Hand— Seed of  Palm, by  Libyan  Sun Fructified in  Sand—
Nature rarer uses  Yellow Than another  Hue. Saves she all of that for  Sunsets Prodigal of  Blue Spending  Scarlet, like a  Woman Yellow she affords Only scantly and selectly Like a  Lover's  Words.
' Tis  Sunrise— Little  Maid— Hast  Thou No  Station in the  Day?' Twas not thy wont, to hinder so— Retrieve thine industry—' Tis  Noon— My little  Maid— Alas—and art thou sleeping yet? The  Lily—waiting to be  Wed— The  Bee— Hast thou forgot? My little  Maid—' Tis  Night— Alas That  Night should be to thee Instead of  Morning— Had'st thou broached Thy little  Plan to  Die— Dissuade thee, if  I could not,  Sweet, I might have aided—thee—
 The  Heart has narrow  Banks It measures like the  Sea In mighty—unremitting  Bass And  Blue  Monotony Till  Hurricane bisect And as itself discerns Its sufficient  Area The  Heart convulsive learns That  Calm is but a  Wall Of unattempted  Gauze An instant's  Push demolishes A  Questioning—dissolves.
 If the foolish, call them "flowers"— Need the wiser, tell? If the  Savants " Classify" them It is just as well! Those who read the " Revelations" Must not criticize Those who read the same  Edition— With beclouded  Eyes! Could we stand with that  Old " Moses"—" Canaan" denied— Scan like him, the stately landscape On the other side— Doubtless, we should deem superfluous Many  Sciences, Not pursued by learned  Angels In scholastic skies! Low amid that glad  Belles lettres Grant that we may stand, Stars, amid profound  Galaxies— At that grand " Right hand"!
 My  Soul—accused me— And  I quailed— As  Tongue of  Diamond had reviled All else accused me—and  I smiled— My  Soul—that  Morning—was  My friend— Her favor—is the best  Disdain Toward  Artifice of  Time—or  Men— But  Her  Disdain—'twere lighter bear A finger of  Enamelled  Fire—
 Peace is a fiction of our  Faith— The  Bells a  Winter  Night Bearing the  Neighbor out of  Sound That never did alight.
Volcanoes be in  Sicily And  South  America I judge from my  Geography -  Volcanos nearer here A  Lava step at any time Am  I inclined to climb -  A  Crater  I may contemplate Vesuvius at  Home.
 The  Months have ends—the  Years—a knot— No  Power can untie To stretch a little further A  Skein of  Misery— The  Earth lays back these tired lives In her mysterious  Drawers— Too tenderly, that any doubt An ultimate  Repose— The manner of the  Children— Who weary of the  Day— Themself—the noisy  Plaything They cannot put away—
 Partake as doth the  Bee, Abstemiously. The  Rose is an  Estate— In  Sicily.
 One  Anguish—in a  Crowd— A  Minor thing—it sounds— And yet, unto the single  Doe Attempted of the  Hounds' Tis  Terror as consummate As  Legions of  Alarm Did leap, full flanked, upon the  Host—' Tis  Units—make the  Swarm— A  Small  Leech—on the  Vitals— The sliver, in the  Lung— The  Bung out—of an  Artery— Are scarce accounted— Harms— Yet might—by relation To that  Repealless thing— A  Being—impotent to end— When once it has begun—
 So glad we are—a  Stranger'd deem' Twas sorry, that we were— For where the  Holiday should be There publishes a  Tear— Nor how  Ourselves be justified— Since  Grief and  Joy are done So similar— An  Optizan Could not decide between—
 My  Eye is fuller than my vase— Her  Cargo—is of  Dew— And still—my  Heart—my  Eye outweighs— East  India—for you!
 The  Soul's distinct connection With immortality Is best disclosed by  Danger Or quick  Calamity— As  Lightning on a  Landscape Exhibits  Sheets of  Place— Not yet suspected—but for  Flash— And  Click—and  Suddenness.
 Heart, not so heavy as mine Wending late home— As it passed my window Whistled itself a tune— A careless snatch—a ballad— A ditty of the street— Yet to my irritated  Ear An  Anodyne so sweet— It was as if a  Bobolink Sauntering this way Carolled, and paused, and carolled— Then bubbled slow away! It was as if a chirping brook Upon a dusty way— Set bleeding feet to minuets Without the knowing why! Tomorrow, night will come again— Perhaps, weary and sore— Ah  Bugle!  By my window I pray you pass once more.
 My  Faith is larger than the  Hills— So when the  Hills decay— My  Faith must take the  Purple  Wheel To show the  Sun the way—' Tis first  He steps upon the  Vane— And then—upon the  Hill— And then abroad the  World  He go To do  His  Golden  Will— And if  His  Yellow feet should miss— The  Bird would not arise— The  Flowers would slumber on their  Stems— No  Bells have  Paradise— How dare  I, therefore, stint a faith On which so vast depends— Lest  Firmament should fail for me— The  Rivet in the  Bands
 If this is "fading" Oh let me immediately "fade"! If this is "dying" Bury me, in such a shroud of red! If this is "sleep," On such a night How proud to shut the eye! Good  Evening, gentle  Fellow men! Peacock presumes to die!
 I met a  King this afternoon! He had not on a  Crown indeed, A little  Palmleaf  Hat was all, And he was barefoot,  I'm afraid! But sure  I am he  Ermine wore Beneath his faded  Jacket's blue— And sure  I am, the crest he bore Within that  Jacket's pocket too! For 'twas too stately for an  Earl— A  Marquis would not go so grand!' Twas possibly a  Czar petite— A  Pope, or something of that kind! If  I must tell you, of a  Horse My freckled  Monarch held the rein— Doubtless an estimable  Beast, But not at all disposed to run! And such a wagon!  While  I live Dare  I presume to see Another such a vehicle As then transported me! Two other ragged  Princes His royal state partook! Doubtless the first excursion These sovereigns ever took! I question if the  Royal  Coach Round which the  Footmen wait Has the significance, on high, Of this  Barefoot  Estate!
 The  Dust behind  I strove to join Unto the  Disk before— But  Sequence ravelled out of  Sound Like  Balls upon a  Floor—
 On such a night, or such a night, Would anybody care If such a little figure Slipped quiet from its chair— So quiet— Oh how quiet, That nobody might know But that the little figure Rocked softer—to and fro— On such a dawn, or such a dawn— Would anybody sigh That such a little figure Too sound asleep did lie For  Chanticleer to wake it— Or stirring house below— Or giddy bird in orchard— Or early task to do? There was a little figure plump For every little knoll— Busy needles, and spools of thread— And trudging feet from school— Playmates, and holidays, and nuts— And visions vast and small— Strange that the feet so precious charged Should reach so small a goal!
 It's coming—the postponeless  Creature— It gains the  Block—and now—it gains the  Door— Chooses its latch, from all the other fastenings— Enters—with a " You know  Me— Sir"? Simple  Salute—and certain  Recognition— Bold—were it  Enemy— Brief—were it friend— Dresses each  House in  Crape, and  Icicle— And carries one—out of it—to  God—
 My wheel is in the dark! I cannot see a spoke Yet know its dripping feet Go round and round. My foot is on the  Tide! An unfrequented road— Yet have all roads A clearing at the end— Some have resigned the  Loom— Some in the busy tomb Find quaint employ— Some with new—stately feet— Pass royal through the gate— Flinging the problem back At you and  I!
Through the  Dark  Sod—as  Education— The  Lily passes sure— Feels her white foot—no trepidation— Her faith—no fear— Afterward—in the  Meadow— Swinging her  Beryl  Bell— The  Mold-life—all forgotten—now— In  Ecstasy—and  Dell—
 I am ashamed— I hide— What right have  I—to be a  Bride— So late a  Dowerless  Girl— Nowhere to hide my dazzled  Face— No one to teach me that new  Grace— Nor introduce—my  Soul— Me to adorn— How—tell— Trinket—to make  Me beautiful— Fabrics of  Cashmere— Never a  Gown of  Dun—more— Raiment instead—of  Pompadour— For  Me— My soul—to wear— Fingers—to frame my  Round  Hair Oval—as  Feudal  Ladies wore— Far  Fashions— Fair— Skill to hold my  Brow like an  Earl— Plead—like a  Whippoorwill— Prove—like a  Pearl— Then, for  Character— Fashion  My  Spirit quaint—white— Quick—like a  Liquor— Gay—like  Light— Bring  Me my best  Pride— No more ashamed— No more to hide— Meek—let it be—too proud—for  Pride— Baptized—this  Day—a  Bride—
 We lose—because we win— Gamblers—recollecting which Toss their dice again!
 Great  Caesar!  Condescend The  Daisy, to receive, Gathered by  Cato's  Daughter, With your majestic leave!
 To learn the  Transport by the  Pain As  Blind  Men learn the sun! To die of thirst—suspecting That  Brooks in  Meadows run! To stay the homesick—homesick feet Upon a foreign shore— Haunted by native lands, the while— And blue—beloved air! This is the  Sovereign  Anguish! This—the signal woe! These are the patient " Laureates" Whose voices—trained—below— As cend in ceaseless  Carol— Inaudible, indeed, To us—the duller scholars Of the  Mysterious  Bard!
 We  Cover  Thee— Sweet  Face— Not that  We tire of  Thee— But that  Thyself fatigue of  Us— Remember—as  Thou go— We follow  Thee until Thou notice  Us—no more— And then—reluctant—turn away To  Con  Thee o'er and o'er— And blame the scanty love We were  Content to show— Augmented— Sweet—a  Hundred fold— If  Thou would'st take it—now—
 The  Sunrise runs for  Both— The  East— Her  Purple  Troth Keeps with the  Hill— The  Noon unwinds  Her  Blue Till  One  Breadth cover  Two— Remotest—still—  Nor does the  Night forget A  Lamp for  Each—to set— Wicks wide away— The  North— Her blazing  Sign Erects in  Iodine— Till  Both—can see— The  Midnight's  Dusky  Arms Clasp  Hemispheres, and  Homes And so Upon  Her  Bosom— One— And  One upon  Her  Hem— Both lie—
 I bring an unaccustomed wine To lips long parching Next to mine, And summon them to drink; Crackling with fever, they  Essay, I turn my brimming eyes away, And come next hour to look. The hands still hug the tardy glass— The lips  I would have cooled, alas— Are so superfluous  Cold— I would as soon attempt to warm The bosoms where the frost has lain Ages beneath the mould— Some other thirsty there may be To whom this would have pointed me Had it remained to speak— And so  I always bear the cup If, haply, mine may be the drop Some pilgrim thirst to slake— If, haply, any say to me" Unto the little, unto me," When  I at last awake.
 There is a finished feeling Experienced at  Graves— A leisure of the  Future— A  Wilderness of  Size. By  Death's bold  Exhibition Preciser what we are And the  Eternal function Enabled to infer.
 On a  Columnar  Self— How ample to rely In  Tumult—or  Extremity— How good the  Certainty That  Lever cannot pry— And  Wedge cannot divide Conviction— That  Granitic  Base— Though  None be on our  Side— Suffice  Us—for a  Crowd— Ourself—and  Rectitude— And that  Assembly—not far off From furthest  Spirit— God—
 The power to be true to  You, Until upon my face The  Judgment push his  Picture— Presumptuous of  Your  Place— Of  This— Could  Man deprive  Me— Himself—the  Heaven excel— Whose invitation— Yours reduced Until it showed too small—
 Like  Some  Old fashioned  Miracle When  Summertime is done— Seems  Summer's  Recollection And the  Affairs of  June As infinite  Tradition As  Cinderella's  Bays— Or  Little  John—of  Lincoln  Green— Or  Blue  Beard's  Galleries— Her  Bees have a fictitious  Hum— Her  Blossoms, like a  Dream— Elate us—till we almost weep— So plausible—they seem— Her  Memories like  Strains— Review— When  Orchestra is dumb— The  Violin in  Baize replaced— And  Ear—and  Heaven—numb—
 Where  Ships of  Purple—gently toss— On  Seas of  Daffodil— Fantastic  Sailors—mingle— And then—the  Wharf is still!
 Ribbons of the  Year— Multitude  Brocade— Worn to  Nature's  Party once Then, as flung aside As a faded  Bead Or a  Wrinkled  Pearl Who shall charge the  Vanity Of the  Maker's  Girl?
 She's happy, with a new  Content— That feels to her—like  Sacrament— She's busy—with an altered  Care— As just apprenticed to the  Air— She's tearful—if she weep at all— For blissful  Causes— Most of all That  Heaven permit so meek as her— To such a  Fate—to  Minister.
 Just as  He spoke it from his  Hands This  Edifice remain— A  Turret more, a  Turret less Dishonor his  Design— According as his skill prefer It perish, or endure— Content, soe'er, it ornament His absent character.
 I sometimes drop it, for a  Quick— The  Thought to be alive— Anonymous  Delight to know— And  Madder—to conceive— Consoles a  Woe so monstrous That did it tear all  Day, Without an instant's  Respite—' Twould look too far—to  Die—
 Love—thou art high— I cannot climb thee— But, were it  Two— Who know but we— Taking turns—at the  Chimborazo— Ducal—at last—stand up by thee— Love—thou are deep— I cannot cross thee— But, were there  Two Instead of  One— Rower, and  Yacht—some sovereign  Summer— Who knows—but we'd reach the  Sun? Love—thou are  Veiled— A few—behold thee— Smile—and alter—and prattle—and die— Bliss—were an  Oddity—without thee— Nicknamed by  God— Eternity—
 We— Bee and  I—live by the quaffing—' Tisn't all  Hock—with us— Life has its  Ale— But it's many a lay of the  Dim  Burgundy— We chant—for cheer—when the  Wines—fail— Do we "get drunk"? Ask the jolly  Clovers! Do we "beat" our " Wife"? I—never wed— Bee—pledges his—in minute flagons— Dainty—as the trees—on our deft  Head— While runs the  Rhine— He and  I—revel— First—at the vat—and latest at the  Vine— Noon—our last  Cup—" Found dead"—"of  Nectar"— By a humming  Coroner— In a  By- Thyme!
 One  Crucifixion is recorded—only— How many be Is not affirmed of  Mathematics— Or  History— One  Calvary—exhibited to  Stranger— As many be As persons—or  Peninsulas— Gethsemane— Is but a  Province—in the  Being's  Centre— Judea— For  Journey—or  Crusade's  Achieving— Too near— Our  Lord—indeed—made  Compound  Witness— And yet— There's newer—nearer  Crucifixion Than  That—
 I often passed the village When going home from school— And wondered what they did there— And why it was so still— I did not know the year then— In which my call would come— Earlier, by the  Dial, Than the rest have gone. It's stiller than the sundown. It's cooler than the dawn— The  Daisies dare to come here— And birds can flutter down— So when you are tired— Or perplexed—or cold— Trust the loving promise Underneath the mould, Cry "it's  I," "take  Dollie," And  I will enfold!
 She bore it till the simple veins Traced azure on her hand— Til pleading, round her quiet eyes The purple  Crayons stand. Till  Daffodils had come and gone I cannot tell the sum, And then she ceased to bear it— And with the  Saints sat down. No more her patient figure At twilight soft to meet— No more her timid bonnet Upon the village street— But  Crowns instead, and  Courtiers— And in the midst so fair, Whose but her shy—immortal face Of whom we're whispering here?
 I've seen a  Dying  Eye Run round and round a  Room— In search of  Something—as it seemed— Then  Cloudier become— And then—obscure with  Fog— And then—be soldered down Without disclosing what it be' Twere blessed to have seen—
 If  I'm lost—now That  I was found— Shall still my transport be— That once—on me—those  Jasper  Gates Blazed open—suddenly— That in my awkward—gazing—face— The  Angels—softly peered— And touched me with their fleeces, Almost as if they cared— I'm banished—now—you know it— How foreign that can be— You'll know— Sir—when the  Savior's face Turns so—away from you—
 Twice had  Summer her fair  Verdure Proffered to the  Plain— Twice a  Winter's silver  Fracture On the  Rivers been— Two full  Autumns for the  Squirrel Bounteous prepared— Nature,  Had'st thou not a  Berry For thy wandering  Bird?
 Went up a year this evening! I recollect it well! Amid no bells nor bravoes The bystanders will tell! Cheerful—as to the village— Tranquil—as to repose— Chastened—as to the  Chapel This humble  Tourist rose! Did not talk of returning! Alluded to no time When, were the gales propitious— We might look for him! Was grateful for the  Roses In life's diverse bouquet— Talked softly of new species To pick another day; Beguiling thus the wonder The wondrous nearer drew— Hands bustled at the moorings— The crown respectful grew— Ascended from our vision To  Countenances new! A  Difference— A  Daisy— Is all the rest  I knew!
The  Black  Berry—wears a  Thorn in his side— But no  Man heard  Him cry— He offers  His  Berry, just the same To  Partridge—and to  Boy— He sometimes holds upon the  Fence— Or struggles to a  Tree— Or clasps a  Rock, with both  His  Hands— But not for  Sympathy— We—tell a  Hurt—to cool it— This  Mourner—to the  Sky A little further reaches—instead— Brave  Black  Berry—
 Like  Mighty  Foot  Lights—burned the  Red At  Bases of the  Trees— The far  Theatricals of  Day Exhibiting—to  These—' Twas  Universe—that did applaud— While  Chiefest—of the  Crowd— Enabled by his  Royal  Dress— Myself distinguished  God—
 It would never be  Common—more— I said— Difference—had begun— Many a bitterness—had been— But that old sort—was done— Or—if it sometime—showed—as 'twill— Upon the  Downiest— Morn— Such bliss—had  I—for all the years—' Twould give an  Easier—pain— I'd so much joy— I told it— Red— Upon my simple  Cheek— I felt it publish—in my  Eye—' Twas needless—any speak— I walked—as wings—my body bore— The feet— I former used— Unnecessary—now to me— As boots—would be—to  Birds— I put my pleasure all abroad— I dealth a word of  Gold To every  Creature—that  I met— And  Dowered—all the  World— When—suddenly—my  Riches shrank— A  Goblin—drank my  Dew— My  Palaces—dropped tenantless— Myself—was beggared—too— I clutched at sounds— I groped at shapes— I touched the tops of  Films— I felt the  Wilderness roll back Along my  Golden lines— The  Sackcloth—hangs upon the nail— The  Frock  I used to wear— But where my moment of  Brocade— My—drop—of  India?
Me!  Come!  My dazzled face In such a shining place! Me!  Hear!  My foreign ear The sounds of welcome near! The saints shall meet Our bashful feet. My holiday shall be That they remember me; My paradise, the fame That they pronounce my name.
Tell as a  Marksman -  were forgotten Tell -  this  Day endures Ruddy as that coeval  Apple The  Tradition bears -  Fresh as  Mankind that humble story Though a statelier  Tale Grown in the  Repetition hoary Scarcely would prevail -  Tell had a son -   The ones that knew it Need not linger here -  Those who did not to  Human  Nature Will subscribe a  Tear -  Tell would not bare his  Head In  Presence Of the  Ducal  Hat -  Threatened for that with  Death -  by  Gessler -  Tyranny bethought Make of his only  Boy a  Target That surpasses  Death -  Stolid to  Love's supreme entreaty Not forsook of  Faith -  Mercy of the  Almighty begging -  Tell his  Arrow sent -  God it is said replies in  Person When the cry is meant -
 What would  I give to see his face? I'd give— I'd give my life—of course— But that is not enough! Stop just a minute—let me think! I'd give my biggest  Bobolink! That makes two— Him—and  Life! You know who " June" is— I'd give her— Roses a day from  Zanzibar— And  Lily tubes—like  Wells— Bees—by the furlong— Straits of  Blue Navies of  Butterflies—sailed thro'— And dappled  Cowslip  Dells— Then  I have "shares" in  Primrose " Banks"— Daffodil  Dowries—spicy " Stocks"— Dominions—broad as  Dew— Bags of  Doublons—adventurous  Bees Brought me—from firmamental seas— And  Purple—from  Peru— Now—have  I bought it—" Shylock"?  Say! Sign me the  Bond!" I vow to pay To  Her—who pledges this— One hour—of her  Sovereign's face"! Ecstatic  Contract! Niggard  Grace! My  Kingdom's worth of  Bliss!
 Of all the  Sounds despatched abroad, There's not a  Charge to me Like that old measure in the  Boughs— That phraseless  Melody— The  Wind does—working like a  Hand, Whose fingers  Comb the  Sky— Then quiver down—with tufts of  Tune— Permitted  Gods, and me— Inheritance, it is, to us— Beyond the  Art to  Earn— Beyond the trait to take away By  Robber, since the  Gain Is gotten not of fingers— And inner than the  Bone— Hid golden, for the whole of  Days, And even in the  Urn, I cannot vouch the merry  Dust Do not arise and play In some odd fashion of its own, Some quainter  Holiday, When  Winds go round and round in  Bands— And thrum upon the door, And  Birds take places, overhead, To bear them  Orchestra. I crave  Him grace of  Summer  Boughs, If such an  Outcast be— Who never heard that fleshless  Chant— Rise—solemn—on the  Tree, As if some  Caravan of  Sound Off  Deserts, in the  Sky, Had parted  Rank, Then knit, and swept— In  Seamless  Company—
 I make  His  Crescent fill or lack— His  Nature is at  Full Or  Quarter—as  I signify— His  Tides—do  I control— He holds superior in the  Sky Or gropes, at my  Command Behind inferior  Clouds—or round A  Mist's slow  Colonnade— But since  We hold a  Mutual  Disc— And front a  Mutual  Day— Which is the  Despot, neither knows— Nor  Whose—the  Tyranny—
How slow the  Wind - how slow the sea - how late their  Fathers be!
 I made slow  Riches but my  Gain Was steady as the  Sun And every  Night, it numbered more Than the preceding  One All  Days,  I did not earn the same But my perceiveless  Gain Inferred the less by  Growing than The  Sum that it had grown.
Not in this world to see his face Sounds long, until  I read the place Where this is said to be But just the primer to a life Unopened, rare, upon the shelf, Clasped yet to him and me. And yet, my primer suits me so I would not choose a book to know Than that, be sweeter wise; Might some one else so learned be. And leave me just my  A  B  C, Himself could have the skies.
 I think to  Live—may be a  Bliss To those who dare to try— Beyond my limit to conceive— My lip—to testify— I think the  Heart  I former wore Could widen—till to me The  Other, like the little  Bank Appear—unto the  Sea— I think the  Days—could every one In  Ordination stand— And  Majesty—be easier— Than an inferior kind— No numb alarm—lest  Difference come— No  Goblin—on the  Bloom— No start in  Apprehension's  Ear, No  Bankruptcy—no  Doom— But  Certainties of  Sun— Midsummer—in the  Mind— A steadfast  South—upon the  Soul— Her  Polar time—behind— The  Vision—pondered long— So plausible becomes That  I esteem the fiction—real— The  Real—fictitious seems— How bountiful the  Dream— What  Plenty—it would be— Had all my  Life but been  Mistake Just rectified—in  Thee
 Robbed by  Death—but that was easy— To the failing  Eye I could hold the latest  Glowing— Robbed by  Liberty For  Her  Jugular  Defences— This, too,  I endured— Hint of  Glory—it afforded— For the  Brave  Beloved— Fraud of  Distance— Fraud of  Danger, Fraud of  Death—to bear— It is  Bounty—to  Suspense's Vague  Calamity— Stalking our entire  Possession On a  Hair's result— Then—seesawing—coolly—on it— Trying if it split—
 So well that  I can live without— I love thee—then  How well is that? As well as  Jesus? Prove it me That  He—loved  Men— As  I—love thee—
The  Savior must have been A docile  Gentleman— To come so far so cold a  Day For little  Fellowmen— The  Road to  Bethlehem Since  He and  I were  Boys Was leveled, but for that ‘twould be A rugged  Billion  Miles—
Who were 'the  Father and the  Son' We pondered when a child, And what had they to do with us And when portentous told With inference appalling By  Childhood fortified We thought, at least they are no worse Than they have been described. Who are 'the  Father and the  Son' Did we demand  Today' The  Father and the  Son' himself Would doubtless specify -  But had they the felicity When we desired to know. We better  Friends had been, perhaps, Than time ensue to be -  We start -  to learn that we believe But once -  entirely -  Belief, it does not fit so well When altered frequently -  We blush, that  Heaven if we achieve -  Event ineffable -  We shall have shunned until ashamed To own the  Miracle -
 Ideals are the  Fairly  Oil With which we help the  Wheel But when the  Vital  Axle turns The  Eye rejects the  Oil.
 He fought like those  Who've nought to lose— Bestowed  Himself to  Balls As  One who for a further  Life Had not a further  Use— Invited  Death—with bold attempt— But  Death was  Coy of  Him As  Other  Men, were  Coy of  Death— To  Him—to live—was  Doom— His  Comrades, shifted like the  Flakes When  Gusts reverse the  Snow— But  He—was left alive  Because Of  Greediness to die—
 I fear a  Man of frugal  Speech— I fear a  Silent  Man— Haranguer— I can overtake— Or  Babbler—entertain— But  He who weigheth— While the  Rest— Expend their furthest pound— Of this  Man— I am wary— I fear that  He is  Grand—
 When  I was small, a  Woman died— Today—her  Only  Boy Went up from the  Potomac— His face all  Victory To look at her— How slowly The  Seasons must have turned Till  Bullets clipt an  Angle And  He passed quickly round— If pride shall be in  Paradise— Ourself cannot decide— Of their imperial  Conduct— No person testified— But, proud in  Apparition— That  Woman and her  Boy Pass back and forth, before my  Brain As even in the sky— I'm confident that  Bravoes— Perpetual break abroad For  Braveries, remote as this In  Scarlet  Maryland—
Exhilaration is the  Breeze That lifts us from the  Ground And leaves us in another place Whose statement is not found -  Returns us not, but after time We soberly descend A little newer for the term Upon  Enchanted  Ground -
 Her  Sweet turn to leave the  Homestead Came the  Darker  Way— Carriages— Be  Sure—and  Guests—too— But for  Holiday' Tis more pitiful  Endeavor Than did  Loaded  Sea O'er the  Curls attempt to caper It had cast away— Never  Bride had such  Assembling— Never kinsmen kneeled To salute so fair a  Forehead— Garland be indeed— Fitter  Feet—of  Her before us— Than whatever  Brow Art of  Snow—or  Trick of  Lily Possibly bestow Of  Her  Father— Whoso ask  Her— He shall seek as high As the  Palm—that serve the  Desert— To obtain the  Sky— Distance—be  Her only  Motion— If 'tis  Nay—or  Yes— Acquiescence—or  Demurral— Whosoever guess— He—must pass the  Crystal  Angle That obscure  Her face— He—must have achieved in person Equal  Paradise—
 One and  One—are  One— Two—be finished using— Well enough for  Schools— But for  Minor  Choosing— Life—just—or  Death— Or the  Everlasting— More—would be too vast For the  Soul's  Comprising—
 Grief is a  Mouse— And chooses  Wainscot in the  Breast For  His  Shy  House— And baffles quest— Grief is a  Thief—quick startled— Pricks  His  Ear—report to hear Of that  Vast  Dark— That swept  His  Being—back— Grief is a  Juggler—boldest at the  Play— Lest if  He flinch—the eye that way Pounce on  His  Bruises— One—say—or  Three— Grief is a  Gourmand—spare  His luxury— Best  Grief is  Tongueless—before  He'll tell— Burn  Him in the  Public  Square— His  Ashes—will Possibly—if they refuse— How then know— Since a  Rack couldn't coax a syllable—now.
 So has a  Daisy vanished From the fields today— So tiptoed many a slipper To  Paradise away— Oozed so in crimson bubbles Day's departing tide— Blooming—tripping—flow ing Are ye then with  God?
 It would have starved a  Gnat— To live so small as  I— And yet  I was a living  Child— With  Food's necessity Upon me—like a  Claw— I could no more remove Than  I could coax a  Leech away— Or make a  Dragon—move— Not like the  Gnat—had  I— The privilege to fly And seek a  Dinner for myself— How mightier  He—than  I— Nor like  Himself—the  Art Upon the  Window  Pane To gad my little  Being out— And not begin—again—
' Tis good—the looking back on  Grief— To re-endure a  Day— We thought the  Mighty  Funeral— Of  All  Conceived  Joy— To recollect how  Busy  Grass Did meddle—one by one— Till all the  Grief with  Summer—waved And none could see the stone. And though the  Woe you have  Today Be larger— As the  Sea Exceeds its  Unremembered  Drop— They're  Water—equally—
 The  Juggler's  Hat her  Country is— The  Mountain  Gorse—the  Bee's!
Of all the souls that stand create I have elected one. When sense from spirit files away, And subterfuge is done; When that which is and that which was Apart, intrinsic, stand, And this brief tragedy of flesh Is shifted like a sand; When figures show their royal front And mists are carved sway,-- Behold the atom  I  Feferred To all the lists of clay!
 The  Sun—just touched the  Morning— The  Morning— Happy thing— Supposed that  He had come to dwell— And  Life would all be  Spring! She felt herself supremer— A  Raised— Ethereal  Thing! Henceforth—for  Her— What  Holiday! Meanwhile— Her wheeling  King— Trailed—slow—along the  Orchards— His haughty—spangled  Hems— Leaving a new necessity! The want of  Diadems! The  Morning—fluttered—staggered— Felt feebly—for  Her  Crown— Her unanointed forehead— Henceforth— Her only  One!
How firm  Eternity must look To crumbling men like me The only  Adamant  Estate In all  Identity -  How mighty to the insecure Thy  Physiognomy To whom not any  Face cohere -  Unless concealed in thee
 What  I see not,  I better see— Through  Faith—my  Hazel  Eye Has periods of shutting— But,  No lid has  Memory— For frequent, all my sense obscured I equally behold As someone held a light unto The  Features so beloved—- And  I arise—and in my  Dream— Do  Thee distinguished  Grace— Till jealous  Daylight interrupt— And mar thy perfectness—
Like  Brooms of  Steel The  Snow and  Wind Had swept the  Winter  Street -  The  House was hooked The  Sun sent out Faint  Deputies of  Heat -  Where rode the  Bird The  Silence tied His ample -  plodding  Steed The  Apple in the  Cellar snug Was all the one that played.
 So from the mould Scarlet and  Gold Many a  Bulb will rise— Hidden away, cunningly,  From sagacious eyes. So from  Cocoon Many a  Worm Leap so  Highland gay, Peasants like me, Peasants like  Thee Gaze perplexedly!
 Morning—is the place for  Dew— Corn—is made at  Noon— After dinner light—for flowers— Dukes—for  Setting  Sun!
 How sick—to wait—in any place—but thine— I knew last night—when someone tried to twine— Thinking—perhaps—that  I looked tired—or alone— Or breaking—almost—with unspoken pain— And  I turned—ducal— That right—was thine— One port—suffices—for a  Brig—like mine— Ours be the tossing—wild though the sea— Rather than a  Mooring—unshared by thee. Ours be the  Cargo—unladed—here— Rather than the "spicy isles—" And thou—not there—
 He touched me, so  I live to know That such a day, permitted so, I groped upon his breast— It was a boundless place to me And silenced, as the awful sea Puts minor streams to rest. And now,  I'm different from before, As if  I breathed superior air— Or brushed a  Royal  Gown— My feet, too, that had wandered so— My  Gypsy face—transfigured now— To tenderer  Renown— Into this  Port, if  I might come, Rebecca, to  Jerusalem, Would not so ravished turn— Nor  Persian, baffled at her shrine Lift such a  Crucifixial sign To her imperial  Sun.
 Under the  Light, yet under, Under the  Grass and the  Dirt, Under the  Beetle's  Cellar Under the  Clover's  Root, Further than  Arm could stretch Were it  Giant long, Further than  Sunshine could Were the  Day  Year long, Over the  Light, yet over, Over the  Arc of the  Bird— Over the  Comet's chimney— Over the  Cubit's  Head, Further than  Guess can gallop Further than  Riddle ride— Oh for a  Disc to the  Distance Between  Ourselves and the  Dead!
 Life—is what we make of it— Death—we do not know— Christ's acquaintance with  Him Justify  Him—though— He—would trust no stranger— Other—could betray— Just  His own endorsement— That—sufficeth  Me— All the other  Distance He hath traversed first— No  New  Mile remaineth— Far as  Paradise— His sure foot preceding— Tender  Pioneer— Base must be the  Coward Dare not venture—now—
 I meant to have but modest needs— Such as  Content—and  Heaven— Within my income—these could lie And  Life and  I—keep even— But since the last—included both— It would suffice my  Prayer But just for  One—to stipulate— And  Grace would grant the  Pair— And so—upon this wise— I prayed— Great  Spirit— Give to me A  Heaven not so large as  Yours, But large enough—for me— A  Smile suffused  Jehovah's face— The  Cherubim—withdrew— Grave  Saints stole out to look at me— And showed their dimples—too— I left the  Place, with all my might— I threw my  Prayer away— The  Quiet  Ages picked it up— And  Judgment—twinkled—too— Tat one so honest—be extant— It take the  Tale for true— That " Whatsoever  Ye shall ask— Itself be given  You"— But  I, grown shrewder—scan the  Skies With a suspicious  Air— As  Children—swindled for the first All  Swindlers—be—infer—
The  Soul unto itself Is an imperial friend --  Or the most agonizing  Spy --  An  Enemy -- could send -- Secure against its own --  No treason it can fear --  Itself -- its  Sovereign -- of itself The  Soul should stand in  Awe --
 Of  Bronze—and  Blaze— The  North— Tonight— So adequate—it forms— So preconcerted with itself— So distant—to alarms— And  Unconcern so sovereign To  Universe, or me— Infects my simple spirit With  Taints of  Majesty— Till  I take vaster attitudes— And strut upon my stem— Disdaining  Men, and  Oxygen, For  Arrogance of them— My  Splendors, are  Menagerie— But their  Completeless  Show Will entertain the  Centuries When  I, am long ago, An  Island in dishonored  Grass— Whom none but  Beetles—know.
 God made a little  Gentian— It tried—to be a  Rose— And failed—and all the  Summer laughed— But just before the  Snows There rose a  Purple  Creature— That ravished all the  Hill— And  Summer hid her  Forehead— And  Mockery—was still— The  Frosts were her condition— The  Tyrian would not come Until the  North—invoke it— Creator— Shall  I—bloom?
Renunciation -- is a piercing  Virtue -- The letting go A  Presence -- for an  Expectation -- Not now -- The putting out of  Eyes -- Just  Sunrise -- Lest  Day -- Day's  Great  Progenitor -- Outvie Renunciation -- is the  Choosing Against itself -- Itself to justify Unto itself -- When larger function -- Make that appear -- Smaller -- that  Covered  Vision --  Here --
 To venerate the simple days Which lead the seasons by, Needs but to remember That from you or  I, They may take the trifle Termed mortality!
 Finite—to fail, but infinite to  Venture— For the one ship that struts the shore Many's the gallant—overwhelmed  Creature Nodding in  Navies nevermore—
 Sweet— You forgot—but  I remembered Every time—for  Two— So that the  Sum be never hindered Through  Decay of  You— Say if  I erred?  Accuse my  Farthings— Blame the little  Hand Happy it be for  You—a  Beggar's— Seeking  More—to spend— Just to be  Rich—to waste my  Guineas On so  Best a  Heart— Just to be  Poor—for  Barefoot  Vision You— Sweet— Shut me out—
 Her—"last  Poems"— Poets—ended— Silver—perished—with her  Tongue— Not on  Record—bubbled other, Flute—or  Woman— So divine— Not unto its  Summer— Morning Robin—uttered  Half the  Tune— Gushed too free for the  Adoring— From the  Anglo- Florentine— Late—the  Praise—' Tis dull—conferring On the  Head too  High to  Crown— Diadem—or  Ducal  Showing— Be its  Grave—sufficient sign— Nought—that  We— No  Poet's  Kinsman— Suffocate—with easy woe— What, and if,  Ourself a  Bridegroom— Put  Her down—in  Italy?
 I pay—in  Satin  Cash— You did not state—your price— A  Petal, for a  Paragraph It near as  I can guess—
 He forgot—and  I—remembered—' Twas an everyday affair— Long ago as  Christ and  Peter—" Warmed them" at the " Temple fire."" Thou wert with him"—quoth "the  Damsel"?" No"—said  Peter, 'twasn't me— Jesus merely "looked" at  Peter— Could  I do aught else—to  Thee?
 The  Soul's  Superior instants Occur to  Her—alone— When friend—and  Earth's occasion Have infinite withdrawn— Or  She— Herself—ascended To too remote a  Height For lower  Recognition Than  Her  Omnipotent— This  Mortal  Abolition Is seldom—but as fair As  Apparition—subject To  Autocratic  Air— Eternity's disclosure To favorites—a few— Of the  Colossal substance Of  Immortality
 It knew no  Medicine— It was not  Sickness—then— Nor any need of  Surgery— And therefore—'twas not  Pain— It moved away the  Cheeks— A  Dimple at a time— And left the  Profile—plainer— And in the place of  Bloom It left the little  Tint That never had a  Name— You've seen it on a  Cast's face— Was  Paradise—to blame— If momently ajar— Temerity—drew near— And sickened—ever afterward For  Somewhat that it saw?
 I've known a  Heaven, like a  Tent— To wrap its shining  Yards— Pluck up its stakes, and disappear— Without the sound of  Boards Or  Rip of  Nail— Or  Carpenter— But just the miles of  Stare— That signalize a  Show's  Retreat— In  North  America— No  Trace—no  Figment of the  Thing That dazzled,  Yesterday, No  Ring—no  Marvel— Men, and  Feats— Dissolved as utterly— As  Bird's far  Navigation Discloses just a  Hue— A plash of  Oars, a  Gaiety— Then swallowed up, of  View.
 Why make it doubt—it hurts it so— So sick—to guess— So strong—to know— So brave—upon its little  Bed To tell the very last  They said Unto  Itself—and smile— And shake— For that dear—distant—dangerous— Sake— But—the  Instead—the  Pinching fear That  Something—it did do—or dare— Offend the  Vision—and it flee— And  They no more remember me— Nor ever turn to tell me why— Oh,  Master,  This is  Misery—
 If  I may have it, when it's dead, I'll be contented—so— If just as soon as  Breath is out It shall belong to me— Until they lock it in the  Grave,' Tis  Bliss  I cannot weigh— For tho' they lock  Thee in the  Grave, Myself—can own the key— Think of it  Lover!  I and  Thee Permitted—face to face to be— After a  Life—a  Death— We'll say— For  Death was  That— And this—is  Thee— I'll tell  Thee  All—how  Bald it grew— How  Midnight felt, at first—to me— How all the  Clocks stopped in the  World— And  Sunshine pinched me—' Twas so cold— Then how the  Grief got sleepy—some— As if my  Soul were deaf and dumb— Just making signs—across—to  Thee— That this way—thou could'st notice me— I'll tell you how  I tried to keep A smile, to show you, when this  Deep All  Waded— We look back for  Play, At those  Old  Times—in  Calvary, Forgive me, if the  Grave come slow— For  Coveting to look at  Thee— Forgive me, if to stroke thy frost Outvisions  Paradise!
 By such and such an offering To  Mr.  So and  So, The web of live woven— So martyrs albums show!
 I read my sentence—steadily— Reviewed it with my eyes, To see that  I made no mistake In its extremest clause— The  Date, and manner, of the shame— And then the  Pious  Form That " God have mercy" on the  Soul The  Jury voted  Him— I made my soul familiar—with her extremity— That at the last, it should not be a novel  Agony— But she, and  Death, acquainted— Meet tranquilly, as friends— Salute, and pass, without a  Hint— And there, the  Matter ends—
 I rose—because  He sank— I thought it would be opposite— But when his power dropped— My  Soul grew straight. I cheered my fainting  Prince— I sang firm—even— Chants— I helped his  Film—with  Hymn— And when the  Dews drew off That held his  Forehead stiff— I met him— Balm to  Balm— I told him  Best—must pass Through this low  Arch of  Flesh— No  Casque so brave It spurn the  Grave— I told him  Worlds  I knew Where  Emperors grew— Who recollected us If we were true— And so with  Thews of  Hymn— And  Sinew from within— And ways  I knew not that  I knew—till then— I lifted  Him—
That only lasts an hour How much — how little — is Within our power
Her final summer was it, And yet we guessed it not; If tenderer industriousness Pervaded her, we thought A further force of life Developed from within,-- When  Death lit all the shortness up, And made the hurry plain. We wondered at our blindness,-- When nothing was to see But her  Carrara guide-post,-- At our stupidity When, duller than our dulness, The busy darling lay, So busy was she, finishing, So leisurely were we!
 Victory comes late— And is held low to freezing lips— Too rapt with frost To take it— How sweet it would have tasted— Just a  Drop— Was  God so economical? His  Table's spread too high for  Us— Unless  We dine on tiptoe— Crumbs—fit such little mouths— Cherries—suit  Robbins— The  Eagle's  Golden  Breakfast strangles— Them— God keep  His  Oath to  Sparrows— Who of little  Love—know how to starve—
Are  Friends  Delight or  Pain? Could  Bounty but remain Riches were good -  But if they only stay Ampler to fly away Riches are sad.
Pain has an element of blank; It cannot recollect When it began, or if there were A day when it was not.  It has no future but itself, Its infinite realms contain Its past, enlightened to perceive New periods of pain.
 The lonesome for they know not  What— The  Eastern  Exiles—be— Who strayed beyond the  Amber line Some madder  Holiday— And ever since—the purple  Moat They strive to climb—in vain— As  Birds—that tumble from the clouds Do fumble at the strain— The  Blessed  Ether—taught them— Some  Transatlantic  Morn— When  Heaven—was too common—to miss— Too sure—to dote upon!
 The  Future—never spoke— Nor will  He—like the  Dumb— Reveal by sign—a syllable Of  His  Profound  To  Come— But when the  News be ripe— Presents it—in the  Act— Forestalling  Preparation— Escape—or  Substitute— Indifference to  Him— The  Dower—as the  Doom— His  Office—but to execute Fate's— Telegram—to  Him—
 How noteless  Men, and  Pleiads, stand, Until a sudden sky Reveals the fact that  One is rapt Forever from the  Eye— Members of the  Invisible, Existing, while we stare, In  Leagueless  Opportunity, O'ertakenless, as the  Air— Why didn't we detain  Them? The  Heavens with a smile, Sweep by our disappointed  Heads Without a syllable—
 I prayed, at first, a little  Girl, Because they told me to— But stopped, when qualified to guess How prayer would feel—to me— If  I believed  God looked around, Each time my  Childish eye Fixed full, and steady, on his own In  Childish honesty— And told him what  I'd like, today, And parts of his far plan That baffled me— The mingled side Of his  Divinity— And often since, in  Danger, I count the force 'twould be To have a  God so strong as that To hold my life for me Till  I could take the  Balance That tips so frequent, now, It takes me all the while to poise— And then—it doesn't stay—
Safe in their alabaster chambers, Untouched by morning and untouched by noon, Sleep the meek members of the resurrection, Rafter of satin, and roof of stone. Light laughs the breeze in her castle of sunshine; Babbles the bee in a stolid ear; Pipe the sweet birds in ignorant cadences, -- Ah, what sagacity perished here! Grand go the years in the crescent above them; Worlds scoop their arcs, and firmaments row, Diadems drop and  Doges surrender, Soundless as dots on a disk of snow.
 There is a pain—so utter— It swallows substance up— Then covers the  Abyss with  Trance— So  Memory can step Around—across—upon it— As one within a  Swoon— Goes safely—where an open eye— Would drop  Him— Bone by  Bone.
 The  Battle fought between the  Soul And  No  Man—is the  One Of all the  Battles prevalent— By far the  Greater  One— No  News of it is had abroad— Its  Bodiless  Campaign Establishes, and terminates— Invisible— Unknown&mdas h; Nor  History—record it— As  Legions of a  Night The  Sunrise scatters— These endure— Enact—and terminate—
 It's such a little thing to weep— So short a thing to sigh— And yet—by  Trades—the size of these We men and women die!
 The  Test of  Love—is  Death— Our  Lord—"so loved"—it saith— What  Largest  Lover—hath Another—doth— If smaller  Patience—be— Through less  Infinity— If  Bravo, sometimes swerve— Through fainter  Nerve— Accept its  Most— And overlook—the  Dust— Last— Least— The  Cross'— Request—
 I cannot buy it—'tis not sold— There is no other in the  World— Mine was the only one I was so happy  I forgot To shut the  Door  And it went out And  I am all alone— If  I could find it  Anywhere I would not mind the journey there Though it took all my store But just to look it in the  Eye—" Did'st thou?" " Thou did'st not mean," to say, Then, turn my  Face away.
 Unto my  Books—so good to turn— Far ends of tired  Days— It half endears the  Abstinence— And  Pain—is missed—in  Praise— As  Flavors—cheer  Retarded  Guests With  Banquettings to be— So  Spices—stimulate the time Till my small  Library— It may be  Wilderness—without— Far feet of failing  Men— But  Holiday—excludes the night— And it is  Bells—within— I thank these  Kinsmen of the  Shelf— Their  Countenances  Kid Enamor—in  Prospective— And satisfy—obtained—
 I cried at  Pity—not at  Pain— I heard a  Woman say" Poor  Child"—and something in her voice Convicted me—of me— So long  I fainted, to myself It seemed the common way, And  Health, and  Laughter,  Curious things— To look at, like a  Toy— To sometimes hear " Rich people" buy And see the  Parcel rolled— And carried,  I supposed—to  Heaven, For children, made of  Gold— But not to touch, or wish for, Or think of, with a sigh— And so and so—had been to me, Had  God willed differently. I wish  I knew that  Woman's name— So when she comes this way, To hold my life, and hold my ears For fear  I hear her say She's "sorry  I am dead"—again— Just when the  Grave and  I— Have sobbed ourselves almost to sleep, Our only  Lullaby—
 We pray—to  Heaven— We prate—of  Heaven— Relate—when  Neighbors die— At what o'clock to heaven—they fled— Who saw them— Wherefore fly? Is  Heaven a  Place—a  Sky—a  Tree? Location's narrow way is for  Ourselves— Unto the  Dead There's no  Geography— But  State— Endowal— Focus— Where&m dash; Omnipresence—fly?
 I had no  Cause to be awake— My  Best—was gone to sleep— And  Morn a new politeness took— And failed to wake them up— But called the others—clear— And passed their  Curtains by— Sweet  Morning—when  I oversleep— Knock— Recollect—to  Me— I looked at  Sunrise— Once— And then  I looked at  Them— And wishfulness in me arose— For  Circumstance the same—' Twas such an  Ample  Peace— It could not hold a  Sigh—' Twas  Sabbath—with the  Bells divorced—' Twas  Sunset—all the  Day— So choosing but a  Gown— And taking but a  Prayer— The only  Raiment  I should need— I struggled—and was  There—
 She sped as  Petals of a  Rose Offended by the  Wind— A frail  Aristocrat of  Time Indemnity to find— Leaving on nature—a  Default As  Cricket or as  Bee— But  Andes in the  Bosoms where She had begun to lie—
 I'll clutch—and clutch— Next— One— Might be the golden touch— Could take it— Diamonds— Wait— I'm diving—just a little late— But stars—go slow—for night— I'll string you—in fine  Necklace— Tiaras—make—of some— Wear you on  Hem— Loop up a  Countess—with you— Make—a  Diadem—and mend my old  One— Count— Hoard—then lose— And doubt that you are mine— To have the joy of feeling it—again— I'll show you at the  Court— Bear you—for  Ornament Where  Women breathe— That every sigh—may lift you Just as high—as  I— And—when  I die— In meek array—display you— Still to show—how rich  I go— Lest  Skies impeach a wealth so wonderful— And banish me—
 So bashful when  I spied her! So pretty—so ashamed! So hidden in her leaflets Lest anybody find— So breathless till  I passed here— So helpless when  I turned And bore her struggling, blushing, Her simple haunts beyond! For whom  I robbed the  Dingle— For whom  I betrayed the  Dell— Many, will doubtless ask me, But  I shall never tell!
 Rest at  Night The  Sun from shining, Nature—and some  Men— Rest at  Noon—some  Men— While  Nature And the  Sun—go on—
 Three times—we parted— Breath—and  I— Three times— He would not go— But strove to stir the lifeless  Fan The  Waters—strove to stay. Three  Times—the  Billows tossed me up— Then caught me—like a  Ball— Then made  Blue faces in my face— And pushed away a sail That crawled  Leagues off— I liked to see— For thinking—while  I die— How pleasant to behold a  Thing Where  Human faces—be— The  Waves grew sleepy— Breath—did not— The  Winds—like  Children—lulled— Then  Sunrise kissed my  Chrysalis— And  I stood up—and lived—
 The  Morning after  Woe—' Tis frequently the  Way— Surpasses all that rose before— For utter  Jubilee— As  Nature did not care— And piled her  Blossoms on— And further to parade a  Joy Her  Victim stared upon— The  Birds declaim their  Tunes— Pronouncing every word Like  Hammers— Did they know they fell Like  Litanies of  Lead— On here and there—a creature— They'd modify the  Glee To fit some  Crucifixal  Clef— Some  Key of  Calvary—
 On this long storm the  Rainbow rose— On this late  Morn—the  Sun— The clouds—like listless  Elephants— Horizons—straggled down— The  Birds rose smiling, in their nests— The gales—indeed—were done— Alas, how heedless were the eyes— On whom the summer shone! The quiet nonchalance of death— No  Daybreak—can bestir— The slow— Archangel's syllables Must awaken her!
" Heaven" has different  Signs—to me— Sometimes,  I think that  Noon Is but a symbol of the  Place— And when again, at  Dawn, A mighty look runs round the  World And settles in the  Hills— An  Awe if it should be like that Upon the  Ignorance steals— The  Orchard, when the  Sun is on— The  Triumph of the  Birds When they together  Victory make— Some  Carnivals of  Clouds— The  Rapture of a finished  Day— Returning to the  West— All these—remind us of the place That  Men call "paradise"— Itself be fairer—we suppose— But how  Ourself, shall be Adorned, for a  Superior  Grace— Not yet, our eyes can see—
 The  Drop, that wrestles in the  Sea— Forgets her own locality— As  I—toward  Thee— She knows herself an incense small— Yet small—she sighs—if  All—is  All— How larger—be? The  Ocean—smiles—at her  Conceit— But she, forgetting  Amphitrite— Pleads—" Me"?
 One dignity delays for all— One mitred  Afternoon— None can avoid this purple— None evade this  Crown! Coach, it insures, and footmen— Chamber, and state, and throng— Bells, also, in the village As we ride grand along! What dignified  Attendants! What service when we pause! How loyally at parting Their hundred hats they raise! Her pomp surpassing ermine When simple  You, and  I, Present our meek escutheon And claim the rank to die!
 We talked as  Girls do— Fond, and late— We speculated fair, on every subject, but the  Grave— Of ours, none affair— We handled  Destinies, as cool— As we— Disposers—be— And  God, a  Quiet  Party To our  Authority— But fondest, dwelt upon  Ourself As we eventual—be— When  Girls to  Women, softly raised We—occupy— Degree—  We parted with a contract To cherish, and to write But  Heaven made both, impossible Before another night.
 With thee, in the  Desert— With thee in the thirst— With thee in the  Tamarind wood— Leopard breathes—at last!
On my volcano grows the  Grass A meditative spot -  An acre for a  Bird to choose Would be the  General thought -  How red the  Fire rocks below -  How insecure the sod Did  I disclose Would populate with awe my solitude.
 While it is alive Until  Death touches it While it and  I lap one  Air Dwell in one  Blood Under one  Sacrament Show me  Division can split or pare— Love is like  Life—merely longer Love is like  Death, during the  Grave Love is the  Fellow of the  Resurrection Scooping up the  Dust and chanting " Live"!
 I lost a  World - the other day! Has  Anybody found? You'll know it by the  Row of  Stars Around its forehead bound. A  Rich man—might not notice it— Yet—to my frugal  Eye, Of more  Esteem than  Ducats— Oh find it— Sir—for me!
 The  Robin for the  Crumb Returns no syllable But long records the  Lady's name In  Silver  Chronicle.
 If pain for peace prepares Lo, what " Augustan" years Our feet await! If springs from winter rise, Can the  Anemones Be reckoned up? If night stands fast—then noon To gird us for the sun, What gaze! When from a thousand skies On our developed eyes Noons blaze!
 If  I shouldn't be alive When the  Robins come, Give the one in  Red  Cravat, A  Memorial crumb. If  I couldn't thank you, Being fast asleep, You will know  I'm trying Why my  Granite lip!
 The  Love a  Life can show  Below Is but a filament,  I know, Of that diviner thing That faints upon the face of  Noon— And smites the  Tinder in the  Sun— And hinders  Gabriel's  Wing—' Tis this—in  Music—hints and sways— And far abroad on  Summer days— Distils uncertain pain—' Tis this enamors in the  East— And tints the  Transit in the  West With harrowing  Iodine—' Tis this—invites—appalls—endows&mda sh; Flits—glimmers—proves—di ssolves— Returns—suggests—co nvicts—enchants— Then—flings in  Paradise—
 To put this  World down, like a  Bundle— And walk steady, away, Requires  Energy—possibly  Agony—' Tis the  Scarlet way Trodden with straight renunciation By the  Son of  God— Later, his faint  Confederates Justify the  Road— Flavors of that old  Crucifixion— Filaments of  Bloom,  Pontius  Pilate sowed— Strong  Clusters, from  Barabbas'  Tomb— Sacrament,  Saints partook before us— Patent, every drop, With the  Brand of the  Gentile  Drinker Who indorsed the  Cup—
I know a place where summer strives With such a practised frost, She each year leads her daisies back, Recording briefly, ' Lost.' But when the south wind stirs the pools And struggles in the lanes, Her heart misgives her for her vow, And she pours soft refrains Into the lap of adamant, And spices, and the dew, That stiffens quietly to quartz Upon her amber shoe.
 Unto like  Story— Trouble has enticed me— How  Kinsmen fell— Brothers and  Sister—who preferred the  Glory— And their young will Bent to the  Scaffold, or in  Dungeons—chanted— Till  God's full time— When they let go the ignominy—smiling— And  Shame went still— Unto guessed  Crests, my moaning fancy, leads me, Worn fair By  Heads rejected—in the lower country— Of honors there— Such spirit makes her perpetual mention, That  I—grown bold— Step martial—at my  Crucifixion— As  Trumpets—rolled— Feet, small as mine—have marched in  Revolution Firm to the  Drum— Hands—not so stout—hoisted them—in witness— When  Speech went numb— Let me not shame their sublime deportments— Drilled bright— Beckoning— Etruscan invitation— Toward  Light—
 It's easy to invent a  Life— God does it—every  Day— Creation—but the  Gambol Of  His  Authority— It's easy to efface it— The thrifty  Deity Could scarce afford  Eternity To  Spontaneity— The  Perished  Patterns murmur— But  His  Perturbless  Plan Proceed—inserting  Here—a  Sun— There—leaving out a  Man—
 This  Consciousness that is aware Of  Neighbors and the  Sun Will be the one aware of  Death And that itself alone Is traversing the interval Experience between And most profound experiment Appointed unto  Men— How adequate unto itself Its properties shall be Itself unto itself and none Shall make discovery. Adventure most unto itself The  Soul condemned to be— Attended by a single  Hound Its own identity.
 There is a  June when  Corn is cut And  Roses in the  Seed— A  Summer briefer than the first But tenderer indeed As should a  Face supposed the  Grave's Emerge a single  Noon In the  Vermilion that it wore Affect us, and return— Two  Seasons, it is said, exist— The  Summer of the  Just, And this of  Ours, diversified With  Prospect, and with  Frost— May not our  Second with its  First So infinite compare That  We but recollect the one The other to prefer?
Our journey had advanced; Our feet were almost come To that odd fork in  Being's road, Eternity by term. Our pace took sudden awe, Our feet reluctant led. Before were cities, but between, The forest of the dead. Retreat was out of hope,-- Behind, a sealed route, Eternity's white flag before, And  God at every gate.
 Upon  Concluded  Lives There's nothing cooler falls— Than  Life's sweet  Calculations— The mixing  Bells and  Palls— Make  Lacerating  Tune— To  Ears the  Dying  Side—' Tis  Coronal—and  Funeral— Saluting—in the  Road—
 I went to thank  Her— But  She  Slept— Her  Bed—a funneled  Stone— With  Nosegays at the  Head and  Foot— That  Travellers—had thrown— Who went to thank  Her— But  She  Slept—' Twas  Short—to cross the  Sea— To look upon  Her like—alive— But turning back—'twas slow—
 This  World is not  Conclusion. A  Species stands beyond— Invisible, as  Music— But positive, as  Sound— It beckons, and it baffles— Philosophy—don't know— And through a  Riddle, at the last— Sagacity, must go— To guess it, puzzles scholars— To gain it,  Men have borne Contempt of  Generations And  Crucifixion, shown— Faith slips—and laughs, and rallies— Blushes, if any see— Plucks at a twig of  Evidence— And asks a  Vane, the way— Much  Gesture, from the  Pulpit— Strong  Hallelujahs roll— Narcotics cannot still the  Tooth That nibbles at the soul—
 I know where  Wells grow— Droughtless  Wells— Deep dug—for  Summer days— Where  Mosses go no more away— And  Pebble—safely plays— It's made of  Fathoms—and a  Belt— A  Belt of jagged  Stone— Inlaid with  Emerald—half way down— And  Diamonds—jumbled on— It has no  Bucket— Were  I rich A  Bucket  I would buy— I'm often thirsty—but my lips Are so high up— You see— I read in an  Old fashioned  Book That  People "thirst no more"— The  Wells have  Buckets to them there— It must mean that— I'm sure— Shall  We remember  Parching—then? Those  Waters sound so grand— I think a little  Well—like  Mine— Dearer to understand—
 I lived on  Dread— To  Those who know The  Stimulus there is In  Danger— Other impetus Is numb—and  Vitalless— As 'twere a  Spur—upon the  Soul— A  Fear will urge it where To go without the  Sceptre's aid Were  Challenging  Despair.
 Teach  Him— When  He makes the names— Such an one—to say— On his babbling— Berry—lips— As should sound—to me— Were my  Ear—as near his nest— As my thought—today— As should sound—" Forbid us not"— Some like " Emily."
 The  Rose did caper on her cheek— Her  Bodice rose and fell— Her pretty speech—like drunken men— Did stagger pitiful— Her fingers fumbled at her work— Her needle would not go— What ailed so smart a little  Maid— It puzzled me to know— Till opposite— I spied a cheek That bore another  Rose— Just opposite— Another speech That like the  Drunkard goes— A  Vest that like her  Bodice, danced— To the immortal tune— Till those two troubled—little  Clocks Ticked softly into one.
  I have a  Bird in spring Which for myself doth sing— The spring decoys. And as the summer nears— And as the  Rose appears, Robin is gone. Yet do  I not repine Knowing that  Bird of mine Though flown— Learneth beyond the sea Melody new for me And will return. Fast is a safer hand Held in a truer  Land Are mine— And though they now depart, Tell  I my doubting heart They're thine. In a serener  Bright, In a more golden light I see Each little doubt and fear, Each little discord here Removed. Then will  I not repine, Knowing that  Bird of mine Though flown Shall in a distant tree Bright melody for me Return.
 The  Sun kept stooping—stooping—low! The  Hills to meet him rose! On his side, what  Transaction! On their side, what  Repose! Deeper and deeper grew the stain Upon the window pane— Thicker and thicker stood the feet Until the  Tyrian Was crowded dense with  Armies— So gay, so  Brigadier— That  I felt martial stirrings Who once the  Cockade wore— Charged from my chimney corner— But  Nobody was there!
 If your  Nerve, deny you— Go above your  Nerve— He can lean against the  Grave, If he fear to swerve— That's a steady posture— Never any bend Held of those  Brass arms— Best  Giant made— If your  Soul seesaw— Lift the  Flesh door— The  Poltroon wants  Oxygen— Nothing more—
' Twould ease—a  Butterfly— Elate—a  Bee— Thou'rt neither— Neither—thy capacity— But,  Blossom, were  I, I would rather be Thy moment Than a  Bee's  Eternity— Content of fading Is enough for me— Fade  I unto  Divinity— And  Dying— Lifetime— Ample as the  Eye— Her least attention raise on me—
 To lose one's faith—surpass The loss of an  Estate— Because  Estates can be Replenished—faith cannot— Inherited with  Life— Belief—but once—can be— Annihilate a single clause— And  Being's— Beggary—
 The  Sun kept setting—setting—still No  Hue of  Afternoon— Upon the  Village  I perceived From  House to  House 'twas  Noon— The  Dusk kept dropping—dropping—still No  Dew upon the  Grass— But only on my  Forehead stopped— And wandered in my  Face— My  Feet kept drowsing—drowsing—still My fingers were awake— Yet why so little sound— Myself Unto my  Seeming—make? How well  I knew the  Light before— I could see it now—' Tis  Dying— I am doing—but I'm not afraid to know—
 Forever—it composed of  Nows—' Tis not a different time— Except for  Infiniteness— And  Latitude of  Home— From this—experienced  Here— Remove the  Dates—to  These— Let  Months dissolve in further  Months— And  Years—exhale in  Years— Without  Debate—or  Pause— Or  Celebrated  Days— No different  Our  Years would be From  Anno  Domini's—
 Is it true, dear  Sue? Are there two? I shouldn't like to come For fear of joggling  Him! If  I could shut him up In a  Coffee  Cup, Or tie him to a pin Till  I got in— Or make him fast To " Toby's" fist— Hist!  Whist!  I'd come!
 Essential  Oils—are wrung— The  Attar from the  Rose Be not expressed by  Suns—alone— It is the gift of  Screws— The  General  Rose—decay— But this—in  Lady's  Drawer Make  Summer— When the  Lady lie In  Ceaseless  Rosemary—
 When  Night is almost done— And  Sunrise grows so near That we can touch the  Spaces— It's time to smooth the  Hair— And get the  Dimples ready— And wonder we could care For that old—faded  Midnight— That frightened—but an  Hour—
 To this  World she returned. But with a tinge of that— A  Compound manner, As a  Sod Espoused a  Violet, That chiefer to the  Skies Than to himself, allied, Dwelt hesitating, half of  Dust, And half of  Day, the  Bride.
 Sweet  Mountains— Ye tell  Me no lie— Never deny  Me— Never fly— Those same unvarying  Eyes Turn on  Me—when  I fail—or feign, Or take the  Royal names in vain— Their far—slow— Violet  Gaze— My  Strong  Madonnas— Cherish still— The  Wayward  Nun—beneath the  Hill— Whose service—is to  You— Her latest  Worship— When the  Day Fades from the  Firmament away— To lift  Her  Brows on  You—
 It knew no lapse, nor  Diminuation— But large—serene— Burned on—until through  Dissolution— It failed from  Men— I could not deem these  Planetary forces Annulled— But suffered an  Exchange of  Territory— Or  World—
 To fight aloud, is very brave— But gallanter,  I know Who charge within the bosom The  Cavalry of  Woe— Who win, and nations do not see— Who fall—and none observe— Whose dying eyes, no  Country Regards with patriot love— We trust, in plumed procession For such, the  Angels go— Rank after  Rank, with even feet— And  Uniforms of  Snow.
' Twas warm—at first—like  Us— Until there crept upon A  Chill—like frost upon a  Glass— Till all the scene—be gone. The  Forehead copied  Stone— The  Fingers grew too cold To ache—and like a  Skater's  Brook— The busy eyes—congealed— It straightened—that was all— It crowded  Cold to  Cold— It multiplied indifference— As  Pride were all it could— And even when with  Cords—' Twas lowered, like a  Weight— It made no  Signal, nor demurred, But dropped like  Adamant.
 Some things that fly there be— Birds— Hours—the  Bumblebee— Of these no  Elegy. Some things that stay there be— Grief— Hills— Eternity&mda sh; Nor this behooveth me. There are that resting, rise. Can  I expound the skies? How still the  Riddle lies!
 The  Service without  Hope— Is tenderest,  I think— Because 'tis unsustained By stint— Rewarded  Work— Has impetus of  Gain— And impetus of  Goal— There is no  Diligence like that That knows not an  Until—
 Within my reach! I could have touched! I might have chanced that way! Soft sauntered thro' the village— Sauntered as soft away! So unsuspected  Violets Within the meadows go— Too late for striving fingers That passed, an hour ago!
 Soto!  Explore thyself! Therein thyself shalt find The " Undiscovered  Continent"— No  Settler had the  Mind.
 Did  Our  Best  Moment last—' Twould supersede the  Heaven— A few—and they by  Risk—procure— So this  Sort—are not given— Except as stimulants—in Cases of  Despair— Or  Stupor— The  Reserve— These  Heavenly  Moments are— A  Grant of the  Divine— That  Certain as it  Comes— Withdraws—and leaves the dazzled  Soul In her unfurnished  Rooms
 Conjecturing a  Climate Of unsuspended  Suns— Adds poignancy to  Winter— The  Shivering  Fancy turns To a fictitious  Country To palliate a  Cold— Not obviated of  Degree— Nor erased—of  Latitude—
 It don't sound so terrible—quite—as it did— I run it over—" Dead",  Brain, " Dead." Put it in  Latin—left of my school— Seems it don't shriek so—under rule. Turn it, a little—full in the face A  Trouble looks bitterest— Shift it—just— Say " When  Tomorrow comes this way— I shall have waded down one  Day." I suppose it will interrupt me some Till  I get accustomed—but then the  Tomb Like other new  Things—shows largest—then— And smaller, by  Habit— It's shrewder then Put the  Thought in advance—a  Year— How like "a fit"—then— Murder—wear!
 An ignorance a  Sunset Confer upon the  Eye— Of  Territory— Color— Circumference&mda sh; Decay— Its  Amber  Revelation Exhilirate— Debase— O mnipotence' inspection Of  Our inferior face— And when the solemn features Confirm—in  Victory— We start—as if detected In  Immortality—
 Drab  Habitation of  Whom? Tabernacle or  Tomb— Or  Dome of  Worm— Or  Porch of  Gnome— Or some  Elf's  Catacomb?
 Dying!  To be afraid of thee One must to thine  Artillery Have left exposed a  Friend— Than thine old  Arrow is a  Shot Delivered straighter to the  Heart The leaving  Love behind. Not for itself, the  Dust is shy, But, enemy,  Beloved be Thy  Batteries divorce. Fight sternly in a  Dying eye Two  Armies,  Love and  Certainty And  Love and the  Reverse.
 Escaping backward to perceive The  Sea upon our place— Escaping forward, to confront His glittering  Embrace— Retreating up, a  Billow's height Retreating blinded down Our undermining feet to meet Instructs to the  Divine.
 Embarrassment of one another And  God Is  Revelation's limit, Aloud Is nothing that is chief, But still, Divinity dwells under a seal.
 Unfulfilled to  Observation— Incomplete—to  Eye— But to  Faith—a  Revolution In  Locality— Unto  Us—the  Suns extinguish— To our  Opposite— New  Horizons—they embellish— Fronting  Us—with  Night.
 That  Distance was between  Us That is not of  Mile or  Main— The  Will it is that situates— Equator—never can—
 To my small  Hearth  His fire came— And all my  House aglow Did fan and rock, with sudden light—' Twas  Sunrise—'twas the  Sky— Impanelled from no  Summer brief— With limit of  Decay—' Twas  Noon—without the  News of  Night— Nay,  Nature, it was  Day—
 Did you ever stand in a  Cavern's  Mouth— Widths out of the  Sun— And look—and shudder, and block your breath— And deem to be alone In such a place, what horror, How  Goblin it would be— And fly, as 'twere pursuing you? Then  Loneliness—looks so— Did you ever look in a  Cannon's face— Between whose  Yellow eye— And yours—the  Judgment intervened— The  Question of " To die"— Extemporizing in your ear As cool as  Satyr's  Drums— If you remember, and were saved— It's liker so—it seems—
 Forever at  His side to walk— The smaller of the two! Brain of  His  Brain— Blood of  His  Blood— Two lives— One  Being—now— Forever of  His fate to taste— If grief—the largest part— If joy—to put my piece away For that beloved  Heart— All life—to know each other— Whom we can never learn— And bye and bye—a  Change— Called  Heaven— Rapt  Neighborhoods of  Men— Just finding out—what puzzled us— Without the lexicon!
 I cannot dance upon my  Toes— No  Man instructed me— But oftentimes, among my mind, A  Glee possesseth me, That had  I  Ballet knowledge— Would put itself abroad In  Pirouette to blanch a  Troupe— Or lay a  Prima, mad, And though  I had no  Gown of  Gauze— No  Ringlet, to my  Hair, Nor hopped to  Audiences—like  Birds, One  Claw upon the  Air, Nor tossed my shape in  Eider  Balls, Nor rolled on wheels of snow Till  I was out of sight, in sound, The  House encore me so— Nor any know  I know the  Art I mention—easy— Here— Nor any  Placard boast me— It's full as  Opera—
 We learned the  Whole of  Love— The  Alphabet—the  Words— A  Chapter—then the mighty  Book— Then— Revelation closed— But in  Each  Other's eyes An  Ignorance beheld— Diviner than the  Childhood's— And each to each, a  Child— Attempted to expound What  Neither—understood— Alas, that  Wisdom is so large— And  Truth—so manifold!
 Experience is the  Angled  Road Preferred against the  Mind By— Paradox—the  Mind itself— Presuming it to lead Quite  Opposite— How  Complicate The  Discipline of  Man— Compelling  Him to  Choose  Himself His  Preappointed  Pain—
" Sown in dishonor"! Ah!  Indeed! May this "dishonor" be? If  I were half so fine myself I'd notice nobody!" Sown in corruption"! Not so fast! Apostle is askew! Corinthians . . narrates A  Circumstance or two!
I had no time to hate, because The grave would hinder me, And life was not so ample  I Could finish enmity. Nor had  I time to love, but since Some industry must be, The little toil of love,  I thought, Was large enough for me.
 Suspense—is  Hostiler than  Death— Death—tho'soever  Broad, Is  Just  Death, and cannot increase— Suspense—does not conclude— But perishes—to live anew— But just anew to die— Annihilation—plated fresh With  Immortality—
 He was weak, and  I was strong—then— So  He let me lead him in— I was weak, and  He was strong then— So  I let him lead me— Home.' Twasn't far—the door was near—' Twasn't dark—for  He went—too—' Twasn't loud, for  He said nought— That was all  I cared to know. Day knocked—and we must part— Neither—was strongest—now— He strove—and  I strove—too— We didn't do it—tho'!
 From  Us  She wandered now a  Year, Her tarrying, unknown, If  Wilderness prevent her feet Or that  Ethereal  Zone No eye hath seen and lived We ignorant must be— We only know what time of  Year We took the  Mystery.
 A  Man may make a  Remark— In itself—a quiet thing That may furnish the  Fuse unto a  Spark In dormant nature—lain— Let us deport—with skill— Let us discourse—with care— Powder exists in  Charcoal— Before it exists in  Fire.
 The  Brain—is wider than the  Sky— For—put them side by side— The one the other will contain With ease—and  You—beside— The  Brain is deeper than the sea— For—hold them— Blue to  Blue— The one the other will absorb— As  Sponges— Buckets—do— The  Brain is just the weight of  God— For— Heft them— Pound for  Pound— And they will differ—if they do— As  Syllable from  Sound—
 Baffled for just a day or two— Embarrassed—not afraid— Encounter in my garden An unexpected  Maid. She beckons, and the woods start— She nods, and all begin— Surely, such a country I was never in!
 Fairer through  Fading—as the  Day Into the  Darkness dips away— Half  Her  Complexion of the  Sun— Hindering— Haunting— Perishing— Rall ies  Her  Glow, like a dying  Friend— Teasing with glittering  Amend— Only to aggravate the  Dark Through an expiring—perfect—look—
 Each  Scar  I'll keep for  Him Instead  I'll say of  Gem In  His long  Absence worn A  Costlier one But every  Tear  I bore Were  He to count them o'er His own would fall so more I'll mis sum them.
' Faith' is a fine invention When  Gentlemen can see— But  Microscopes are prudent In an  Emergency.
 Triumph—may be of several kinds— There's  Triumph in the  Room When that  Old  Imperator— Death— By  Faith
 Struck, was  I, not yet by  Lightning— Lightning—lets away Power to perceive  His  Process With  Vitality. Maimed—was  I—yet not by  Venture— Stone of stolid  Boy— Nor a  Sportsman's  Peradventure— Who mine  Enemy? Robbed—was  I—intact to  Bandit— All my  Mansion torn— Sun—withdrawn to  Recognition— Furthest shining—done— Yet was not the foe—of any— Not the smallest  Bird In the nearest  Orchard dwelling Be of  Me—afraid. Most— I love the  Cause that slew  Me. Often as  I die Its beloved  Recognition Holds a  Sun on  Me— Best—at  Setting—as is  Nature's— Neither witnessed  Rise Till the infinite  Aurora In the other's eyes.
 The  Soul has  Bandaged moments— When too appalled to stir— She feels some ghastly  Fright come up And stop to look at her— Salute her—with long fingers— Caress her freezing hair— Sip,  Goblin, from the very lips The  Lover—hovered—o'er— Unworthy, that a thought so mean Accost a  Theme—so—fair— The soul has moments of  Escape— When bursting all the doors— She dances like a  Bomb, abroad, And swings upon the  Hours, As do the  Bee—delirious borne— Long  Dungeoned from his  Rose— Touch  Liberty—then know no more, But  Noon, and  Paradise— The  Soul's retaken moments— When,  Felon led along, With shackles on the plumed feet, And staples, in the  Song, The  Horror welcomes her, again, These, are not brayed of  Tongue—
 She rose to  His  Requirement—dropt The  Playthings of  Her  Life To take the honorable  Work Of  Woman, and of  Wife— If ought  She missed in  Her new  Day, Of  Amplitude, or  Awe— Or first  Prospective— Or the  Gold In using, wear away, It lay unmentioned—as the  Sea Develop  Pearl, and  Weed, But only to  Himself—be known The  Fathoms they abide—
 Be  Mine the  Doom— Sufficient  Fame— To perish in  Her  Hand!
 Trust in the  Unexpected— By this—was  William  Kidd Persuaded of the  Buried  Gold— As  One had testified— Through this—the old  Philosopher— His  Talismanic  Stone Discernéd—still withholden To effort undivine—' Twas this—allured  Columbus— When  Genoa—withdrew Before an  Apparition Baptized  America— The  Same—afflicted  Thomas— When  Deity assured' Twas better—the perceiving not— Provided it believed—
 By my  Window have  I for  Scenery Just a  Sea—with a  Stem— If the  Bird and the  Farmer—deem it a " Pine"— The  Opinion will serve—for them— It has no  Port, nor a " Line"—but the  Jays— That split their route to the  Sky— Or a  Squirrel, whose giddy  Peninsula May be easier reached—this way— For  Inlands—the  Earth is the under side— And the upper side—is the  Sun— And its  Commerce—if  Commerce it have— Of  Spice— I infer from the  Odors borne— Of its  Voice—to affirm—when the  Wind is within— Can the  Dumb—define the  Divine? The  Definition of  Melody—is— That  Definition is none— It—suggests to our  Faith— They—suggest to our  Sight— When the latter—is put away I shall meet with  Conviction  I somewhere met That  Immortality— Was the  Pine at my  Window a " Fellow Of the  Royal"  Infinity? Apprehensions—are  God's introductions— To be hallowed—accordingly—
 It was given to me by the  Gods— When  I was a little  Girl— They given us  Presents most—you know— When we are new—and small. I kept it in my  Hand— I never put it down— I did not dare to eat—or sleep— For fear it would be gone— I heard such words as " Rich"— When hurrying to school— From lips at  Corners of the  Streets— And wrestled with a smile. Rich! ' Twas  Myself—was rich— To take the name of  Gold— And  Gold to own—in solid  Bars— The  Difference—made me bold—
 Split the  Lark—and you'll find the  Music— Bulb after  Bulb, in  Silver rolled— Scantilly dealt to the  Summer  Morning Saved for your  Ear when  Lutes be old. Loose the  Flood—you shall find it patent— Gush after  Gush, reserved for you— Scarlet  Experiment!  Sceptic  Thomas! Now, do you doubt that your  Bird was true?
 Undue  Significance a starving man attaches To  Food— Far off— He sighs—and therefore— Hopeless— And therefore— Good— Partaken&mdash ;it relieves—indeed— But proves us That  Spices fly In the  Receipt— It was the  Distance— Was  Savory—
 To  One denied the drink To tell what  Water is Would be acuter, would it not Than letting  Him surmise? To lead  Him to the  Well And let  Him hear it drip Remind  Him, would it not, somewhat Of  His condemned lip?
 Doubt  Me!  My  Dim  Companion! Why,  God, would be content With but a fraction of the  Life— Poured thee, without a stint— The whole of me—forever— What more the  Woman can, Say quick, that  I may dower thee With last  Delight  I own! It cannot be my  Spirit— For that was thine, before— I ceded all of  Dust  I knew— What  Opulence the more Had  I—a freckled  Maiden, Whose farthest of  Degree, Was—that she might— Some distant  Heaven, Dwell timidly, with thee! Sift her, from  Brow to  Barefoot! Strain till your last  Surmise— Drop, like a  Tapestry, away, Before the  Fire's  Eyes— Winnow her finest fondness— But hallow just the snow Intact, in  Everlasting flake— Oh,  Caviler, for you!
 It ceased to hurt me, though so slow I could not feel the  Anguish go— But only knew by looking back— That something—had benumbed the  Track— Nor when it altered,  I could say, For  I had worn it, every day, As constant as the  Childish frock— I hung upon the  Peg, at night. But not the  Grief—that nestled close As needles—ladies softly press To  Cushions  Cheeks— To keep their place— Nor what consoled it,  I could trace— Except, whereas 'twas  Wilderness— It's better—almost  Peace—
 Make me a picture of the sun— So  I can hang it in my room— And make believe  I'm getting warm When others call it " Day"! Draw me a  Robin—on a stem— So  I am hearing him,  I'll dream, And when the  Orchards stop their tune— Put my pretense—away— Say if it's really—warm at noon— Whether it's  Buttercups—that "skim"— Or  Butterflies—that "bloom"? Then—skip—the frost—upon the lea— And skip the  Russet—on the tree— Let's play those—never come!
 Bereavement in their death to feel Whom  We have never seen— A  Vital  Kinsmanship import Our  Soul and theirs—between— For  Stranger— Strangers do not mourn— There be  Immortal friends Whom  Death see first—'tis news of this That paralyze  Ourselves— Who, vital only to  Our  Thought— Such  Presence bear away In dying—'tis as if  Our  Souls Absconded—suddenly—
 A  Tongue—to tell  Him  I am true! Its fee—to be of  Gold— Had  Nature—in  Her monstrous  House A single  Ragged  Child— To earn a  Mine—would run That  Interdicted  Way, And tell  Him— Charge thee speak it plain— That so far— Truth is  True? And answer  What  I do— Beginning with the  Day That  Night—begun— Nay— Midnight—'twas— Since  Midnight—happened—say— If once more— Pardon— Boy— The  Magnitude thou may Enlarge my  Message— If too vast Another  Lad—help thee— Thy  Pay—in  Diamonds—be— And  His—in solid  Gold— Say  Rubies—if  He hesitate— My  Message—must be told— Say—last  I said—was  This— That when the  Hills—come down— And hold no higher than the  Plain— My  Bond—have just begun— And when the  Heavens—disband— And  Deity conclude— Then—look for me.  Be sure you say— Least  Figure—on the  Road—
 If  He were living—dare  I ask— And how if  He be dead— And so around the  Words  I went— Of meeting them—afraid— I hinted  Changes— Lapse of  Time— The  Surfaces of  Years— I touched with  Caution—lest they crack— And show me to my fears— Reverted to adjoining  Lives— Adroitly turning out Wherever  I suspected  Graves—' Twas prudenter— I thought— And  He— I pushed—with sudden force— In face of the  Suspense—" Was buried"—" Buried"! " He!" My  Life just holds the  Trench—
 Take your  Heaven further on— This—to  Heaven divine  Has gone— Had  You earlier blundered in Possibly, e'en  You had seen An  Eternity—put on— Now—to ring a  Door beyond Is the utmost of  Your  Hand— To the  Skies—apologize— Nearer to  Your  Courtesies Than this  Sufferer polite— Dressed to meet  You— See—in  White!
 None can experience sting Who  Bounty—have not known— The fact of  Famine—could not be Except for  Fact of  Corn— Want—is a meagre  Art Acquired by  Reverse— The  Poverty that was not  Wealth— Cannot be  Indigence.
 To offer brave assistance To  Lives that stand alone— When  One has failed to stop them— Is  Human—but  Divine To lend an  Ample  Sinew Unto a  Nameless  Man— Whose  Homely  Benediction No other—stopped to earn—
 The  Outer—from the  Inner Derives its  Magnitude—' Tis  Duke, or  Dwarf, according As is the  Central  Mood— The fine—unvarying  Axis That regulates the  Wheel— Though  Spokes—spin—more conspicuous And fling a dust—the while. The  Inner—paints the  Outer— The  Brush without the  Hand— Its  Picture publishes—precise— As is the inner  Brand— On fine— Arterial  Canvas— A  Cheek—perchance a  Brow— The  Star's whole  Secret—in the  Lake— Eyes were not meant to know.
 Taking up the fair  Ideal, Just to cast her down When a fracture—we discover— Or a splintered  Crown— Makes the  Heavens portable— And the  Gods—a lie— Doubtless—" Adam"&md ash;scowled at  Eden— For his perjury! Cherishing—our pool  Ideal— Till in purer dress— We behold her—glorified— Comforts—sear ch—like this— Till the broken creatures— We adored—for whole— Stains—all washed— Transfigured—mended—  Meet us—with a smile—
 Besides this  May We know There is  Another— How fair Our  Speculations of the  Foreigner! Some know  Him whom  We knew— Sweet  Wonder— A  Nature be Where  Saints, and our plain going  Neighbor Keep  May!
My life had stood--a  Loaded  Gun--  In  Corners--till a  Day  The  Owner passed--identified--  And carried  Me away--  And now  We roam in  Sovereign  Woods--  And now  We hunt the  Doe--  And every time  I speak for  Him--  The  Mountains straight reply--  And do  I smile, such cordial light  Upon the  Valley glow--  It is as a  Vesuvian face  Had let its pleasure through--  And when at  Night-- Our good  Day done--  I guard  My  Master's  Head-- ' Tis better than the  Eider- Duck's  Deep  Pillow--to have shared--  To foe of  His-- I'm deadly foe--  None stir the second time--  On whom  I lay a  Yellow  Eye--  Or an emphatic  Thumb--  Though  I than  He--may longer live  He longer must--than  I--  For  I have but the power to kill,  Without--the power to die--
 As if  I asked a common  Alms, And in my wondering hand A  Stranger pressed a  Kingdom, And  I, bewildered, stand— As if  I asked the  Orient Had it for me a  Morn— And it should lift its purple  Dikes, And shatter me with  Dawn!
 Through the strait pass of suffering— The  Martyrs—even—trod. Their feet—upon  Temptations— Their faces—upon  God— A stately—shriven— Company— Con vulsion—playing round— Harmless—as streaks of  Meteor— Upon a  Planet's  Bond— Their faith—the everlasting troth— Their  Expectation—fair— The  Needle—to the  North  Degree— Wades—so—thro' polar  Air!
 As the  Starved  Maelstrom laps the  Navies As the  Vulture teased Forces the  Broods in lonely  Valleys As the  Tiger eased By but a  Crumb of  Blood, fasts  Scarlet Till he meet a  Man Dainty adorned with  Veins and  Tissues And partakes—his  Tongue Cooled by the  Morsel for a moment Grows a fiercer thing Till he esteem his  Dates and  Cocoa A  Nutrition mean I, of a finer  Famine Deem my  Supper dry For but a  Berry of  Domingo And a  Torrid  Eye.
' Twas a long  Parting—but the time For  Interview—had  Come— Before the  Judgment  Seat of  God— The last—and second time These  Fleshless  Lovers met— A  Heaven in a  Gaze— A  Heaven of  Heavens—the  Privilege Of one another's  Eyes— No  Lifetime—on  Them— Appareled as the new Unborn—except  They had beheld— Born infiniter—now— Was  Bridal—e'er like  This? A  Paradise—the  Host— And  Cherubim—and  Seraphim— The unobtrusive  Guest—
 Sweet— You forgot—but  I remembered Every time—for  Two— So that the  Sum be never hindered Through  Decay of  You— Say if  I erred?  Accuse my  Farthings— Blame the little  Hand Happy it be for  You—a  Beggar's— Seeking  More—to spend— Just to be  Rich—to waste my  Guineas On so  Best a  Heart— Just to be  Poor—for  Barefoot  Vision You— Sweet— Shut me out—
 I hide myself within my flower, That fading from your  Vase, You, unsuspecting, feel for me— Almost a loneliness.
 The  Brain, within its  Groove Runs evenly—and true— But let a  Splinter swerve—' Twere easier for  You— To put a  Current back— When  Floods have slit the  Hills— And scooped a  Turnpike for  Themselves— And trodden out the  Mills—
 Forget!  The lady with the  Amulet Forget she wore it at her  Heart Because she breathed against Was  Treason twixt? Deny!  Did  Rose her  Bee— For  Privilege of  Play Or  Wile of  Butterfly Or  Opportunity— Her  Lord away? The lady with the  Amulet—will face— The  Bee—in  Mausoleum laid— Discard his  Bride— But longer than the little  Rill— That cooled the  Forehead of the  Hill— While  Other—went the  Sea to fill— And  Other—went to turn the  Mill— I'll do thy  Will—
 Could live—did live— Could die—did die— Could smile upon the whole Through faith in one he met not, To introduce his soul. Could go from scene familiar To an untraversed spot— Could contemplate the journey With unpuzzled heart— Such trust had one among us, Among us not today— We who saw the launching Never sailed the  Bay!
Presentiment is that long shadow on the lawn Indicative that suns go down; The notice to the startled grass That darkness is about to pass.
 Wait till the  Majesty of  Death Invests so mean a brow! Almost a powdered  Footman Might dare to touch it now! Wait till in  Everlasting  Robes That  Democrat is dressed, Then prate about " Preferment"— And " Station," and the rest! Around this quiet  Courtier Obsequious  Angels wait! Full royal is his  Retinue! Full purple is his state! A  Lord, might dare to lift the  Hat To such a  Modest  Clay Since that  My  Lord, "the  Lord of  Lords" Receives unblushingly!
One need not be a chamber to be haunted, One need not be a house; The brain has corridors surpassing Material place. Far safer, of a midnight meeting External ghost, Than an interior confronting That whiter host. Far safer through an  Abbey gallop, The stones achase, Than, moonless, one's own self encounter In lonesome place. Ourself, behind ourself concealed, Should startle most; Assassin, hid in our apartment, Be horror's least. The prudent carries a revolver, He bolts the door, O'erlooking a superior spectre More near.
 If  I could bribe them by a  Rose I'd bring them every flower that grows From  Amherst to  Cashmere! I would not stop for night, or storm— Or frost, or death, or anyone— My business were so dear! If they would linger for a  Bird My  Tambourin were soonest heard Among the  April  Woods! Unwearied, all the summer long, Only to break in wilder song When  Winter shook the boughs! What if they hear me! Who shall say That such an importunity May not at last avail? That, weary of this  Beggar's face— They may not finally say,  Yes— To drive her from the  Hall?
 Poor little  Heart! Did they forget thee? Then dinna care!  Then dinna care! Proud little  Heart! Did they forsake thee? Be debonnaire!  Be debonnaire! Frail little  Heart! I would not break thee— Could'st credit me?  Could'st credit me? Gay little  Heart— Like  Morning  Glory! Wind and  Sun—wilt thee array!
 The  Admirations—and  Contempts—of time— Show justest—through an  Open  Tomb— The  Dying—as it were a  Height Reorganizes  Estimate And what  We saw not We distinguish clear— And mostly—see not What  We saw before—' Tis  Compound  Vision— Light—enabling  Light— The  Finite—furnished With the  Infinite— Convex—and  Concave  Witness— Back—toward  Time— And forward— Toward the  God of  Him—
The spider holds a  Silver  Ball In unperceived  Hands-- And dancing softly to  Himself His  Yarn of  Pearl--unwinds-- He plies from  Nought to  Nought-- In unsubstantial  Trade-- Supplants our  Tapestries with  His-- In half the period-- An  Hour to rear supreme His  Continents of  Light-- Then dangle from the  Housewife's  Broom-- His  Boundaries--forgot--
It is an honorable thought,    And makes one lift one's hat, As one encountered gentlefolk    Upon a daily street, That we've immortal place,    Though pyramids decay, And kingdoms, like the orchard,    Flit russetly away.
 Exultation is the going Of an inland soul to sea, Past the houses—past the headlands— Into deep  Eternity— Bred as we, among the mountains, Can the sailor understand The divine intoxication Of the first league out from land?
 You'll find—it when you try to die— The  Easier to let go— For recollecting such as went— You could not spare—you know. And though their places somewhat filled— As did their  Marble names With  Moss—they never grew so full— You chose the newer names— And when this  World—sets further back— As  Dying—say it does— The former love—distincter grows— And supersedes the fresh— And  Thought of them—so fair invites— It looks too tawdry  Grace To stay behind—with just the  Toys We bought—to ease their place—
His bill an auger is, His head, a cap and frill. He laboreth at every tree,-- A worm his utmost goal.
I years had been from home, And now, before the door, I dared not open, lest a face I never saw before Stare vacant into mine And ask my business there. My business,--just a life  I left, Was such still dwelling there? I fumbled at my nerve, I scanned the windows near; The silence like an ocean rolled, And broke against my ear. I laughed a wooden laugh That  I could fear a door, Who danger and the dead had faced, But never quaked before. I fitted to the latch My hand, with trembling care, Lest back the awful door should spring, And leave me standing there. I moved my fingers off As cautiously as glass, And held my ears, and like a thief Fled gasping from the house.
I am alive— I guess— The  Branches on my  Hand Are full of  Morning  Glory— And at my finger's end— The  Carmine—tingles warm— And if  I hold a  Glass Across my  Mouth—it blurs it— Physician's—proof of  Breath— I am alive—because I am not in a  Room— The  Parlor— Commonly—it is— So  Visitors may come— And lean—and view it sidewise— And add ' How cold—it grew'— And ' Was it conscious—when it stepped In  Immortality? ' I am alive—because I do not own a  House— Entitled to myself—precise— And fitting no one else— And marked my  Girlhood's name— So  Visitors may know Which  Door is mine—and not
 There is a word Which bears a sword Can pierce an armed man— It hurls its barbed syllables And is mute again— But where it fell The saved will tell On patriotic day, Some epauletted  Brother Gave his breath away. Wherever runs the breathless sun— Wherever roams the day— There is its noiseless onset— There is its victory! Behold the keenest marksman! The most accomplished shot! Time's sublimest target Is a soul "forgot!"
 Strong  Draughts of  Their  Refreshing  Minds To drink—enables  Mine Through  Desert or the  Wilderness As bore it  Sealed  Wine— To go elastic— Or as  One The  Camel's trait—attained— How powerful the  Stimulus Of an  Hermetic  Mind—
 A  Weight with  Needles on the pounds— To push, and pierce, besides— That if the  Flesh resist the  Heft— The puncture—coolly tries— That not a pore be overlooked Of all this  Compound  Frame— As manifold for  Anguish— As  Species—be—for name—
 Soul,  Wilt thou toss again? By just such a hazard Hundreds have lost indeed— But tens have won an all— Angel's breathless ballot Lingers to record thee— Imps in eager  Caucus Raffle for my  Soul!
I heard a fly buzz when  I died; The stillness round my form Was like the stillness in the air Between the heaves of storm. The eyes beside had wrung them dry, And breaths were gathering sure For that last onset, when the king Be witnessed in his power. I willed my keepsakes, signed away What portion of me  I Could make assignable,--and then There interposed a fly, With blue, uncertain, stumbling buzz, Between the light and me; And then the windows failed, and then I could not see to see.
The nearest dream recedes, unrealized.      The heaven we chase      Like the  June bee      Before the school-boy      Invites the race;      Stoops to an easy clover Dips--evades--teases--deploys;      Then to the royal clouds      Lifts his light pinnace      Heedless of the boy Staring, bewildered, at the mocking sky.      Homesick for steadfast honey,      Ah! the bee flies not That brews that rare variety.
 Do  People moulder equally, They bury, in the  Grave? I do believe a  Species As positively live As  I, who testify it Deny that  I—am dead— And fill my  Lungs, for  Witness— From  Tanks—above my  Head— I say to you, said  Jesus— That there be standing here— A  Sort, that shall not taste of  Death— If  Jesus was sincere— I need no further  Argue— That statement of the  Lord Is not a controvertible— He told me,  Death was dead—
 Dare you see a  Soul at the  White  Heat? Then crouch within the door— Red—is the  Fire's common tint— But when the vivid  Ore Has vanquished  Flame's conditions, It quivers from the  Forge Without a color, but the light Of unanointed  Blaze. Least  Village has its  Blacksmith Whose  Anvil's even ring Stands symbol for the finer  Forge That soundless tugs—within— Refining these impatient  Ores With  Hammer, and with  Blaze Until the  Designated  Light Repudiate the  Forge—
 If  I should die, And you should live— And time should gurgle on— And morn should beam— And noon should burn— As it has usual done— If  Birds should build as early And  Bees as bustling go— One might depart at option From enterprise below!' Tis sweet to know that stocks will stand When we with  Daisies lie— That  Commerce will continue— And  Trades as briskly fly— It makes the parting tranquil And keeps the soul serene— That gentlemen so sprightly Conduct the pleasing scene!
 We met as  Sparks— Diverging  Flints Sent various—scattered ways— We parted as the  Central  Flint Were cloven with an  Adze— Subsisting on the  Light  We bore Before  We felt the  Dark— A  Flint unto this  Day—perhaps— But for that single  Spark.
 Talk with prudence to a  Beggar Of " Potose," and the mines! Reverently, to the  Hungry Of your viands, and your wines! Cautious, hint to any  Captive You have passed enfranchised feet! Anecdotes of air in  Dungeons Have sometimes proved deadly sweet!
 You taught me  Waiting with  Myself— Appointment strictly kept— You taught me fortitude of  Fate— This—also— I have learnt— An  Altitude of  Death, that could No bitterer debar Than  Life—had done—before it— Yet—there is a  Science more— The  Heaven you know—to understand That you be not ashamed Of  Me—in  Christ's bright  Audience Upon the further  Hand—
 All overgrown by cunning moss, All interspersed with weed, The little cage of " Currer  Bell" In quiet " Haworth" laid. Gathered from many wanderings— Gethsemane can tell Thro' what transporting anguish She reached the  Asphodel! Soft falls the sounds of  Eden Upon her puzzled ear— Oh what an afternoon for  Heaven, When " Bronte" entered there!
 My  Worthiness is all my  Doubt— His  Merit—all my fear— Contrasting which, my quality Do lowlier—appear— Lest  I should insufficient prove For  His beloved  Need— The  Chiefest  Apprehension Upon my thronging  Mind—' Tis true—that  Deity to stoop Inherently incline— For nothing higher than  Itself Itself can rest upon— So  I—the undivine abode Of  His  Elect  Content— Conform my  Soul—as 'twere a  Church, Unto  Her  Sacrament—
 Empty my  Heart, of  Thee— Its single  Artery— Begin, and leave  Thee out— Simply  Extinction's  Date— Much  Billow hath the  Sea— One  Baltic— They— Subtract  Thyself, in play, And not enough of me Is left—to put away—" Myself" meanth  Thee— Erase the  Root—no  Tree— Thee—then—no me— The  Heavens stripped— Eternity's vast pocket, picked—
Elysium is as far as to  The very nearest  Room  If in that  Room a  Friend await  Felicity or  Doom--  What fortitude the  Soul contains  That it can so endure  The accent of a coming  Foot--  The opening of a  Door--
 Denial—is the only fact Perceived by the  Denied— Whose  Will—a numb significance— The  Day the  Heaven died— And all the  Earth strove common round— Without  Delight, or  Beam— What  Comfort was it  Wisdom—was— The spoiler of  Our  Home?
 And this of all my  Hopes This, is the silent end Bountiful colored, my  Morning rose Early and sere, its end Never  Bud from a  Stem Stepped with so gay a  Foot Never a  Worm so confident Bored at so brave a  Root
 Absent  Place—an  April  Day— Daffodils a-blow Homesick curiosity To the  Souls that snow— Drift may block within it Deeper than without— Daffodil delight but Him it duplicate—
 Papa above! Regard a  Mouse O'erpowered by the  Cat! Reserve within thy kingdom A " Mansion" for the  Rat! Snug in seraphic  Cupboards To nibble all the day While unsuspecting  Cycles Wheel solemnly away!
 When  I count the seeds That are sown beneath, To bloom so, bye and bye— When  I con the people Lain so low, To be received as high— When  I believe the garden Mortal shall not see— Pick by faith its blossom And avoid its  Bee, I can spare this summer, unreluctantly.
 Autumn—overlooked my  Knitting— Dyes—said  He—have  I— Could disparage a  Flamingo— Show  Me them—said  I— Cochineal— I chose—for deeming It resemble  Thee— And the little  Border— Dusker— For resembling  Me—
 In lands  I never saw—they say Immortal  Alps look down— Whose  Bonnets touch the firmament— Whose  Sandals touch the town— Meek at whose everlasting feet A  Myriad  Daisy play— Which,  Sir, are you and which am  I Upon an  August day?
 The  Color of a  Queen, is this— The  Color of a  Sun At setting—this and  Amber— Beryl—and this, at  Noon— And when at night— Auroran widths Fling suddenly on men—' Tis this—and  Witchcraft—nature keeps A  Rank—for  Iodine—
 Fame is the tine that  Scholars leave Upon their  Setting  Names— The  Iris not of  Occident That disappears as comes—
 Love—thou art high— I cannot climb thee— But, were it  Two— Who know but we— Taking turns—at the  Chimborazo— Ducal—at last—stand up by thee— Love—thou are deep— I cannot cross thee— But, were there  Two Instead of  One— Rower, and  Yacht—some sovereign  Summer— Who knows—but we'd reach the  Sun? Love—thou are  Veiled— A few—behold thee— Smile—and alter—and prattle—and die— Bliss—were an  Oddity—without thee— Nicknamed by  God— Eternity—
 We should not mind so small a flower— Except it quiet bring Our little garden that we lost Back to the  Lawn again. So spicy her  Carnations nod— So drunken, reel her  Bees— So silver steal a hundred flutes From out a hundred trees— That whoso sees this little flower By faith may clear behold The  Bobolinks around the throne And  Dandelions gold.
He fumbles at your spirit    As players at the keys Before they drop full music on;    He stuns you by degrees, Prepares your brittle substance    For the ethereal blow, By fainter hammers, further heard,    Then nearer, then so slow Your breath has time to straighten,    Your brain to bubble cool, -- Deals one imperial thunderbolt    That scalps your naked soul.
 To be alive—is  Power— Existence—in itself— Without a further function— Omnipotence— Enough— To be alive—and  Will!' Tis able as a  God— The  Maker—of  Ourselves—be what— Such being  Finitude!
 No  Rack can torture me— My  Soul—at  Liberty— Behind this mortal  Bone There knits a bolder  One— You cannot prick with saw— Nor pierce with  Scimitar— Two  Bodies—therefore be— Bind  One— The  Other fly— The  Eagle of his  Nest No easier divest— And gain the  Sky Than mayest  Thou— Except  Thyself may be Thine  Enemy— Captivity is  Consciousness— So's  Liberty.
 Those who have been in the  Grave the longest— Those who begin  Today— Equally perish from our  Practise— Death is the other way— Foot of the  Bold did least attempt it— It—is the  White  Exploit— Once to achieve, annuls the power Once to communicate—
Ample make this bed. Make this bed with awe; In it wait till judgment break Excellent and fair. Be its mattress straight, Be its pillow round; Let no sunrise' yellow noise Interrupt this ground.
I found the phrase to every thought I ever had, but one; And that defies me,--as a hand Did try to chalk the sun To races nurtured in the dark;-- How would your own begin? Can blaze be done in cochineal, Or noon in mazarin?
 I tend my flowers for thee— Bright  Absentee! My  Fuchsia's  Coral  Seams Rip—while the  Sower—dreams— Geraniums— tint—and spot— Low  Daisies—dot— My  Cactus—splits her  Beard To show her throat— Carnations—tip their spice— And  Bees—pick up— A  Hyacinth— I hid— Puts out a  Ruffled  Head— And odors fall From flasks—so small— You marvel how they held— Globe  Roses—break their satin glake— Upon my  Garden floor— Yet—thou—not there— I had as lief they bore No  Crimson—more— Thy flower—be gay— Her  Lord—away! It ill becometh me— I'll dwell in  Calyx— Gray— How modestly—alway— Thy  Daisy— Draped for thee!
 New feet within my garden go— New fingers stir the sod— A  Troubadour upon the  Elm Betrays the solitude. New children play upon the green— New  Weary sleep below— And still the pensive  Spring returns— And still the punctual snow!
 Artists wrestled here! Lo, a tint  Cashmere! Lo, a  Rose! Student of the  Year! For the easel here Say  Repose!
 Had  I presumed to hope— The loss had been to  Me A  Value—for the  Greatness'  Sake— As  Giants—gone away— Had  I presumed to gain A  Favor so remote— The failure but confirm the  Grace In further  Infinite—' Tis failure—not of  Hope— But  Confident  Despair— Advancing on  Celestial  Lists— With faint— Terrestial power—' Tis  Honor—though  I die— For  That no  Man obtain Till  He be justified by  Death— This—is the  Second  Gain—
 Defrauded  I a  Butterfly— The lawful  Heir—for  Thee—
 I could bring  You  Jewels—had  I a mind to— But  You have enough—of those— I could bring  You  Odors from  St.  Domingo— Colors—from  Vera  Cruz— Berries of the  Bahamas—have  I— But this little  Blaze Flickering to itself—in the  Meadow— Suits  Me—more than those— Never a  Fellow matched this  Topaz— And his  Emerald  Swing— Dower itself—for  Bobadilo— Better— Could  I bring?
 I had a guinea golden— I lost it in the sand— And tho' the sum was simple And pounds were in the land— Still, had it such a value Unto my frugal eye— That when  I could not find it— I sat me down to sigh. I had a crimson  Robin— Who sang full many a day But when the woods were painted, He, too, did fly away— Time brought me other  Robins— Their ballads were the same— Still, for my missing  Troubador I kept the "house at hame." I had a star in heaven— One " Pleiad" was its name— And when  I was not heeding, It wandered from the same. And tho' the skies are crowded— And all the night ashine— I do not care about it— Since none of them are mine. My story has a moral— I have a missing friend—" Pleiad" its name, and  Robin, And guinea in the sand. And when this mournful ditty Accompanied with tear— Shall meet the eye of traitor In country far from here— Grant that repentance solemn May seize upon his mind— And he no consolation Beneath the sun may find.
 Unable are the  Loved to die For  Love is  Immortality, Nay, it is  Deity— Unable they that love—to die For  Love reforms  Vitality Into  Divinity.
 Further in  Summer than the  Birds Pathetic from the  Grass A minor  Nation celebrates Its unobtrusive  Mass. No  Ordinance be seen So gradual the  Grace A pensive  Custom it becomes Enlarging  Loneliness. Antiquest felt at  Noon When  August burning low Arise this spectral  Canticle Repose to typify Remit as yet no  Grace No  Furrow on the  Glow Yet a  Druidic  Difference Enhances  Nature now
 Dust is the only  Secret— Death, the only  One You cannot find out all about In his "native town." Nobody know "his  Father"— Never was a  Boy— Hadn't any playmates, Or " Early history"— Industrious!  Laconic! Punctual!  Sedate! Bold as a  Brigand! Stiller than a  Fleet! Builds, like a  Bird, too! Christ robs the  Nest— Robin after  Robin Smuggled to  Rest!
 I  Came to buy a smile—today— But just a single smile— The smallest one upon your face Will suit me just as well— The one that no one else would miss It shone so very small— I'm pleading at the "counter"—sir— Could you afford to sell— I've  Diamonds—on my fingers— You know what  Diamonds are? I've  Rubies—live the  Evening  Blood— And  Topaz—like the star!' Twould be "a  Bargain" for a  Jew! Say—may  I have it— Sir?
 Who occupies this  House? A  Stranger  I must judge Since  No one know  His  Circumstance—' Tis well the name and age Are writ upon the  Door Or  I should fear to pause Where not so much as  Honest  Dog Approach encourages. It seems a curious  Town— Some  Houses very old, Some—newly raised this  Afternoon, Were  I compelled to build It should not be among Inhabitants so still But where the  Birds assemble And  Boys were possible. Before  Myself was born' Twas settled, so they say, A  Territory for the  Ghosts— And  Squirrels, formerly. Until a  Pioneer, as Settlers often do Liking the quiet of the  Place Attracted more unto— And from a  Settlement A  Capital has grown Distinguished for the gravity Of every  Citizen. The  Owner of this  House A  Stranger  He must be— Eternity's  Acquaintances Are mostly so—to me.
 I had not minded— Walls— Were  Universe—one  Rock— And fr  I heard his silver  Call The other side the  Block— I'd tunnel—till my  Groove Pushed sudden thro' to his— Then my face take her  Recompense— The looking in his  Eyes— But 'tis a single  Hair— A filament—a law— A  Cobweb—wove in  Adamant— A  Battlement—of  Straw— A limit like the  Veil Unto the  Lady's face— But every  Mesh—a  Citadel— And  Dragons—in the  Crease—
 Her sweet  Weight on my  Heart a  Night Had scarcely deigned to lie— When, stirring, for  Belief's delight, My  Bride had slipped away— If 'twas a  Dream—made solid—just The  Heaven to confirm— Or if  Myself were dreamed of  Her— The power to presume— With  Him remain—who unto  Me— Gave—even as to  All— A  Fiction superseding  Faith— By so much—as 'twas real—
Pain has an element of blank; It cannot recollect When it began, or if there were A day when it was not. It has no future but itself, Its infinite realms contain Its past, enlightened to perceive New periods of pain.
To die--takes just a little while-- They say it doesn't hurt-- It's only fainter--by degrees-- And then--it's out of sight-- A darker  Ribbon--for a  Day-- A  Crape upon the  Hat-- And then the pretty sunshine comes-- And helps us to forget-- The absent--mystic--creature-- That but for love of us-- Had gone to sleep--that soundest time-- Without the weariness--
 The  Child's faith is new— Whole—like  His  Principle— Wide—like the  Sunrise On fresh  Eyes— Never had a  Doubt— Laughs—at a  Scruple— Believes all sham But  Paradise— Credits the  World— Deems  His  Dominion Broadest of  Sovereignties— And  Caesar—mean— In the  Comparison— Baseless  Emperor— Ruler of  Nought— Yet swaying all— Grown bye and bye To hold mistaken His pretty estimates Of  Prickly  Things He gains the skill Sorrowful—as certain— Men—to anticipate Instead of  Kings—
 Her  Grace is all she has— And that, so least displays— One  Art to recognize, must be, Another  Art, to praise.
 I'm ceded— I've stopped being  Theirs— The name  They dropped upon my face With water, in the country church Is finished using, now, And  They can put it with my  Dolls, My childhood, and the string of spools, I've finished threading—too— Baptized, before, without the choice, But this time, consciously, of  Grace— Unto supremest name— Called to my  Full— The  Crescent dropped— Existence's whole  Arc, filled up, With one small  Diadem. My second  Rank—too small the first— Crowned— Crowing—on my  Father's breast— A half unconscious  Queen— But this time— Adequate— Erect, With  Will to choose, or to reject, And  I choose, just a  Crown—
Come slowly, Eden Lips unused to thee. Bashful, sip thy jasmines, As the fainting bee, Reaching late his flower, Round her chamber hums, Counts his nectars -alights, And is lost in balms!
 Inconceivably solemn! Things go gay Pierce—by the very  Press Of  Imagery— Their far  Parades—order on the eye With a mute  Pomp— A pleading  Pageantry— Flags, are a brave sight— But no true  Eye Ever went by  One— Steadily— Music's triumphant— But the fine  Ear Winces with delight Are  Drums too near—
 What  Inn is this Where for the night Peculiar  Traveller comes? Who is the  Landlord? Where the maids? Behold, what curious rooms! No ruddy fires on the hearth— No brimming  Tankards flow— Necromancer!  Landlord! Who are these below?
I watched the  Moon around the  House Until upon a  Pane --  She stopped -- a  Traveller's privilege -- for  Rest --  And there upon I gazed -- as at a stranger --  The  Lady in the  Town Doth think no incivility To lift her  Glass -- upon --  But never  Stranger justified The  Curiosity Like  Mine -- for not a  Foot -- nor  Hand --  Nor  Formula -- had she --  But like a  Head -- a  Guillotine Slid carelessly away -- Did independent,  Amber --  Sustain her in the sky --  Or like a  Stemless  Flower --  Upheld in rolling  Air By finer  Gravitations --  Than bind  Philosopher --  No  Hunger -- had she -- nor an  Inn --  Her  Toilette -- to suffice -- Nor  Avocation nor  Concernfor little  Mysteries As harass us -- like  Life -- and  Death --  And  Afterwards -- or  Nay --  But seemed engrossed to  Absolute --  With shining -- and the  Sky --  The privilege to scrutinize Was scarce upon my  Eyes When, with a  Silver practise --  She vaulted out of  Gaze --  And next --  I met her on a  Cloud --  Myself too far below To follow her superior  Road --  Or its advantage --  Blue --
 I felt my life with both my hands To see if it was there— I held my spirit to the  Glass, To prove it possibler— I turned my  Being round and round And paused at every pound To ask the  Owner's name— For doubt, that  I should know the  Sound— I judged my features—jarred my hair— I pushed my dimples by, and waited— If they—twinkled back— Conviction might, of me— I told myself, " Take  Courage,  Friend— That—was a former time— But we might learn to like the  Heaven, As well as our  Old  Home!"
 Put up my lute! What of—my  Music! Since the sole ear  I cared to charm— Passive—as  Granite—laps  My  Music— Sobbing—will suit—as well as psalm! Would but the " Memnon" of the  Desert— Teach me the strain That vanquished  Him— When  He—surrendered to the  Sunrise— Maybe—that—would awaken—them!
 Joy to have merited the  Pain— To merit the  Release— Joy to have perished every step— To  Compass  Paradise— Pardon—to look upon thy face— With these old fashioned  Eyes— Better than new—could be—for that— Though bought in  Paradise— Because they looked on thee before— And thou hast looked on them— Prove  Me— My  Hazel  Witnesses The features are the same— So fleet thou wert, when present— So infinite—when gone— An  Orient's  Apparition— Remanded of the  Morn— The  Height  I recollect—' Twas even with the  Hills— The  Depth upon my  Soul was notched— As  Floods—on  Whites of  Wheels— To  Haunt—till  Time have dropped His last  Decade away, And  Haunting actualize—to last At least— Eternity—
 Afraid!  Of whom am  I afraid? Not  Death—for who is  He? The  Porter of my  Father's  Lodge As much abasheth me! Of  Life? ' Twere odd  I fear [a] thing That comprehendeth me In one or two existences— As  Deity decree— Of  Resurrection?  Is the  East Afraid to trust the  Morn With her fastidious forehead? As soon impeach my  Crown!
 If those  I loved were lost The  Crier's voice would tell me— If those  I loved were found The bells of  Ghent would ring— Did those  I loved repose The  Daisy would impel me. Philip—when bewildered Bore his riddle in!
 He gave away his  Life— To  Us— Gigantic  Sum— A trifle—in his own esteem— But magnified—by  Fame— Until it burst the  Hearts That fancied they could hold— When swift it slipped its limit— And on the  Heavens—unrolled—' Tis  Ours—to wince—and weep— And wonder—and decay By  Blossoms gradual process— He chose— Maturity— And quickening—as we sowed— Just obviated  Bud— And when  We turned to note the  Growth— Broke—perfect—from the  Pod—
 A poor—torn heart—a tattered heart— That sat it down to rest— Nor noticed that the  Ebbing  Day Flowed silver to the  West— Nor noticed  Night did soft descend— Nor  Constellation burn— Intent upon the vision Of latitudes unknown. The angels—happening that way This dusty heart espied— Tenderly took it up from toil And carried it to  God— There—sandals for the  Barefoot— There—gathered from the gales— Do the blue havens by the hand Lead the wandering  Sails.
 Before  I got my eye put out I liked as well to see— As other  Creatures, that have  Eyes And know no other way— But were it told to me— Today— That  I might have the sky For mine— I tell you that my  Heart Would split, for size of me— The  Meadows—mine— The  Mountains—mine— All  Forests— Stintless  Stars— As much of  Noon as  I could take Between my finite eyes— The  Motions of the  Dipping  Birds— The  Morning's  Amber  Road— For mine—to look at when  I liked— The  News would strike me dead— So safer—guess—with just my soul Upon the  Window pane— Where other  Creatures put their eyes— Incautious—of the  Sun—
 It might be lonelier Without the  Loneliness— I'm so accustomed to my  Fate— Perhaps the  Other— Peace— Would interrupt the  Dark— And crowd the little  Room— Too scant—by  Cubits—to contain The  Sacrament—of  Him— I am not used to  Hope— It might intrude upon— Its sweet parade—blaspheme the place— Ordained to  Suffering— It might be easier To fail—with  Land in  Sight— Than gain— My  Blue  Peninsula— To perish—of  Delight—
 A  Visitor in  Marl— Who influences  Flowers— Till they are orderly as  Busts— And  Elegant—as  Glass— Who visits in the  Night— And just before the  Sun— Concludes his glistening interview— Caresses—and is gone— But whom his fingers touched— And where his feet have run— And whatsoever  Mouth be kissed— Is as it had not been—
 I stole them from a  Bee— Because— Thee— Sweet plea— He pardoned me!
Before you thought of spring, Except as a surmise, You see,  God bless his suddenness, A fellow in the skies Of independent hues, A little weather-worn, Inspiriting habiliments Of indigo and brown. With specimens of song, As if for you to choose, Discretion in the interval, With gay delays he goes To some superior tree Without a single leaf, And shouts for joy to nobody But his seraphic self!
 A nearness to  Tremendousness— An  Agony procures— Affliction ranges  Boundlessness— Vicinity to  Laws Contentment's quiet  Suburb— Affliction cannot stay In  Acres— Its  Location Is  Illocality—
 Alter!  When the  Hills do— Falter!  When the  Sun Question if  His  Glory Be the  Perfect  One— Surfeit!  When the  Daffodil Doth of the  Dew— Even as  Herself— Sir— I will—of  You—
 If any sink, assure that this, now standing— Failed like  Themselves—and conscious that it rose— Grew by the  Fact, and not the  Understanding How  Weakness passed—or  Force—arose— Tell that the  Worst, is easy in a  Moment— Dread, but the  Whizzing, before the  Ball— When the  Ball enters, enters  Silence— Dying—annuls the power to kill.
 I could die—to know—' Tis a trifling knowledge— News- Boys salute the  Door— Carts—joggle by— Morning's bold face—stares in the window— Were but mine—the  Charter of the least  Fly— Houses hunch the  House With their  Brick  Shoulders— Coals—from a  Rolling  Load—rattle—how—near— To the very  Square— His foot is passing— Possibly, this moment— While  I—dream— Here—
 It troubled me as once  I was— For  I was once a  Child— Concluding how an  Atom—fell— And yet the  Heavens—held— The  Heavens weighed the most—by far— Yet  Blue—and solid—stood— Without a  Bolt—that  I could prove— Would  Giants—understand? Life set me larger—problems— Some  I shall keep—to solve Till  Algebra is easier— Or simpler proved—above— Then—too&m dash;be comprehended— What sorer—puzzled me— Why  Heaven did not break away— And tumble— Blue—on me—
 All  I may, if small, Do it not display Larger for the  Totalness—' Tis  Economy To bestow a  World And withhold a  Star— Utmost, is  Munificence— Less, tho' larger, poor.
The bustle in a house The morning after death Is solemnest of industries Enacted upon earth,-- The sweeping up the heart, And putting love away We shall not want to use again Until eternity.
 It did not surprise me— So  I said—or thought— She will stir her pinions And the nest forgot, Traverse broader forests— Build in gayer boughs, Breathe in  Ear more modern God's old fashioned vows— This was but a  Birdling— What and if it be One within my bosom Had departed me? This was but a story— What and if indeed There were just such coffin In the heart instead?
It was not death, for  I stood up, And all the dead lie down; It was not night, for all the bells Put out their tongues, for noon. It was not frost, for on my flesh I felt siroccos crawl,-- Nor fire, for just my marble feet Could keep a chancel cool. And yet it tasted like them all; The figures  I have seen Set orderly, for burial, Reminded me of mine, As if my life were shaven And fitted to a frame, And could not breathe without a key; And 't was like midnight, some, When everything that ticked has stopped, And space stares, all around, Or grisly frosts, first autumn morns, Repeal the beating ground. But most like chaos,--stopless, cool,-- Without a chance or spar,-- Or even a report of land To justify despair.
 I'm "wife"— I've finished that— That other state— I'm  Czar— I'm " Woman" now— It's safer so— How odd the  Girl's life looks Behind this soft  Eclipse— I think that  Earth feels so To folks in  Heaven—now— This being comfort—then That other kind—was pain— But why compare? I'm " Wife"!  Stop there!
A  Counterfeit -  a  Plated  Person -  I would not be -  Whatever strata of  Iniquity My  Nature underlie -  Truth is good  Health -  and  Safety, and the  Sky. How meagre, what an  Exile -  is a  Lie, And  Vocal -  when we die -
To lose thee, sweeter than to gain All other hearts  I knew. Tis true the drought is destitute But, then,  I had the dew! The  Caspian has its realms of sand, Its other realm of sea. Without this sterile perquisite No  Caspian could be.
There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll; How frugal is the chariot That bears a human soul!
 For  Death—or rather For the  Things 'twould buy— This—put away Life's  Opportunity— The  Things that  Death will buy Are  Room— Escape from  Circumstances— And a  Name— With  Gifts of  Life How  Death's  Gifts may compare— We know not— For the  Rates—lie  Here—
Success is counted sweetest By those who ne'er succeed. To comprehend a nectar Requires sorest need. Not one of all the purple  Host Who took the  Flag today Can tell the definition So clear of  Victory As he defeated--dying-- On whose forbidden ear The distant strains of triumph Burst agonized and clear!
 Promise  This— When  You be  Dying— Some shall summon  Me— Mine belong  Your latest  Sighing— Mine—to  Belt  Your  Eye— Not with  Coins—though they be  Minted From an  Emperor's  Hand— Be my lips—the only  Buckle Your low  Eyes—demand— Mine to stay—when all have wandered— To devise once more If the  Life be too surrendered— Life of  Mine—restore— Poured like this— My  Whole  Libation— Just that  You should see Bliss of  Death— Life's  Bliss extol thro' Imitating  You— Mine—to guard  Your  Narrow  Precinct— To seduce the  Sun Longest on  Your  South, to linger, Largest  Dews of  Morn To demand, in  Your low favor Lest the  Jealous  Grass Greener lean— Or fonder cluster Round some other face— Mine to supplicate  Madonna— If  Madonna be Could behold so far a  Creature— Christ—omitted— Me— Just to follow  Your dear future— Ne'er so far behind— For  My  Heaven— Had  I not been Most enough—denied?
A light exists in spring    Not present on the year At any other period.    When  March is scarcely here A color stands abroad    On solitary hills That science cannot overtake,    But human naturefeels. It waits upon the lawn;    It shows the furthest tree Upon the furthest slope we know;    It almost speaks to me. Then, as horizons step,    Or noons report away, Without the formula of sound,    It passes, and we stay: A quality of loss    Affecting our content, As trade had suddenly encroached    Upon a sacrament.
 Before the ice is in the pools— Before the skaters go, Or any check at nightfall Is tarnished by the snow— Before the fields have finished, Before the  Christmas tree, Wonder upon wonder Will arrive to me! What we touch the hems of On a summer's day— What is only walking Just a bridge away— That which sings so—speaks so— When there's no one here— Will the frock  I wept in Answer me to wear?
 An  Hour is a  Sea Between a few, and me— With them would  Harbor be—
 I never lost as much but twice, And that was in the sod. Twice have  I stood a beggar Before the door of  God! Angels—twice descending Reimbursed my store— Burglar!  Banker— Father! I am poor once more!
 Bound—a trouble— And lives can bear it! Limit—how deep a bleeding go! So—many—drops—of vital scarlet— Deal with the soul As with  Algebra! Tell it the  Ages—to a cypher— And it will ache—contented—on— Sing&mdas h;at its pain—as any  Workman— Notching the fall of the  Even  Sun!
 Best  Gains—must have the  Losses'  Test— To constitute them— Gains—
 A first  Mute  Coming— In the  Stranger's  House— A first fair  Going— When the  Bells rejoice— A first  Exchange—of What hath mingled—been— For  Lot—exhibited to Faith—alone—
 Spring is the  Period Express from  God. Among the other seasons Himself abide, But during  March and  April None stir abroad Without a cordial interview With  God.
 Best  Things dwell out of  Sight The  Pearl—the  Just— Our  Thought. Most shun the  Public  Air Legitimate, and  Rare— The  Capsule of the  Wind The  Capsule of the  Mind Exhibit here, as doth a  Burr— Germ's  Germ be where?
Tie the strings to my life, my  Lord,    Then  I am ready to go! Just a look at the horses --    Rapid!  That will do! Put me in on the firmest side,    So  I shall never fall; For we must ride to the  Judgment,    And it's partly down hill. But never  I mind the bridges,    And never  I mind the sea; Held fast in everlasting race    By my own choice and thee. Good-by to the life  I used to lives,    And the world  I used to know; And kiss the hills for me, just once;    Now  I am ready to go!
My life closed twice before its close-- It yet remains to see If  Immortality unveil  A third event to me So huge, so hopeless to conceive As these that twice befell. Parting is all we know of heaven, And all we need of hell.
A bird came down the walk: He did not know  I saw;  He bit an angle-worm in halves And ate the fellow, raw. And then he drank a dew From a convenient grass, And then hopped sidewise to the wall To let a beetle pass. He glanced with rapid eyes That hurried all abroad,-  They looked like frightened beads,  I thought;  He stirred his velvet head Like one in danger; cautious, I offered him a crumb, And he unrolled his feathers And rowed him softer home Than oars divide the ocean, Too silver for a seam, Or butterflies, off banks of noon, Leap, splashless, as they swim.
 A  Lady red—amid the  Hill Her annual secret keeps! A  Lady white, within the  Field In placid  Lily sleeps! The tidy  Breezes, with their  Brooms— Sweep vale—and hill—and tree! Prithee,  My pretty  Housewives! Who may expected be? The  Neighbors do not yet suspect! The  Woods exchange a smile! Orchard, and  Buttercup, and  Bird— In such a little while! And yet, how still the  Landscape stands! How nonchalant the  Hedge! As if the " Resurrection" Were nothing very strange!
 So much  Summer Me for showing Illegitimate— Would a  Smile's minute bestowing Too exorbitant To the  Lady With the  Guinea Look—if  She should know Crumb of  Mine A  Robin's  Larder Would suffice to stow—
 I shall know why—when  Time is over— And  I have ceased to wonder why— Christ will explain each separate anguish In the fair schoolroom of the sky— He will tell me what " Peter" promised— And  I—for wonder at his woe— I shall forget the drop of  Anguish That scalds me now—that scalds me now!
" Faith" is a fine invention When  Gentlemen can see— But  Microscopes are prudent In an  Emergency.
 A  Burdock—clawed my  Gown— Not  Burdock's—blame— But mine— Who went too near The  Burdock's  Den— A  Bog—affronts my shoe— What else have  Bogs—to do— The only  Trade they know— The splashing  Men! Ah, pity—then!' Tis  Minnows can despise! The  Elephant's—calm eyes Look further on!
' Morning'—means ' Milking'—to the  Farmer— Dawn—to the  Teneriffe— Dice—to the  Maid— Morning means just  Risk—to the  Lover— Just revelation—to the  Beloved— Epicures—date a  Breakfast—by it— Brides—an  Apocalypse— Worlds—a  Flood— Faint-going  Lives— Their  Lapse from  Sighing— Faith— The  Experiment of  Our  Lord
I died for beauty, but was scarce Adjusted in the tomb, When one who died for truth was lain In an adjoining room.  He questioned softly why  I failed?" For beauty,"  I replied." And  I for truth - the two are one; We brethren are," he said.  And so, as kinsmen met a-night, We talked between the rooms, Until the moss had reached our lips, And covered up our names.
 A throe upon the features— A hurry in the breath— An ecstasy of parting Denominated " Death"— An anguish at the mention Which when to patience grown, I've known permission given To rejoin its own.
A clock stopped -- not the mantel's    Geneva's farthest skill Can't put the puppet bowing    That just now dangled still. An awe came on the trinket!    The figures hunched with pain, Then quivered out of decimals    Into degreeless noon. It will not stir for doctors,    This pendulum of snow; The shopman importunes it,    While cool, concernless  No Nods from the gilded pointers,    Nods from seconds slim, Decades of arrogance between    The dial life and him.
' Tis so much joy! ' Tis so much joy!  If  I should fail, what poverty!  And yet, as poor as  I, Have ventured all upon a throw!  Have gained!  Yes!  Hesitated so— This side the  Victory!  Life is but  Life!  And  Death, but  Death!  Bliss is, but  Bliss, and  Breath but  Breath!  And if indeed  I fail, At least, to know the worst, is sweet!  Defeat means nothing but  Defeat, No drearier, can befall!  And if  I gain!  Oh  Gun at  Sea!  Oh  Bells, that in the  Steeples be!  At first, repeat it slow!  For  Heaven is a different thing, Conjectured, and waked sudden in— And might extinguish me!
 Did the  Harebell loose her girdle To the lover  Bee Would the  Bee the  Harebell hallow Much as formerly? Did the " Paradise"—persuaded— Yi eld her moat of pearl— Would the  Eden be an  Eden, Or the  Earl—an  Earl?
" Heaven" has different  Signs—to me— Sometimes,  I think that  Noon Is but a symbol of the  Place— And when again, at  Dawn, A mighty look runs round the  World And settles in the  Hills— An  Awe if it should be like that Upon the  Ignorance steals— The  Orchard, when the  Sun is on— The  Triumph of the  Birds When they together  Victory make— Some  Carnivals of  Clouds— The  Rapture of a finished  Day— Returning to the  West— All these—remind us of the place That  Men call "paradise"— Itself be fairer—we suppose— But how  Ourself, shall be Adorned, for a  Superior  Grace— Not yet, our eyes can see—
I died for beauty, but was scarce Adjusted in the tomb, When one who died for truth was lain In an adjoining room.  He questioned softly why  I failed?" For beauty,"  I replied." And  I for truth - the two are one; We brethren are," he said.  And so, as kinsmen met a-night, We talked between the rooms, Until the moss had reached our lips, And covered up our names.
 A  Burdock—clawed my  Gown— Not  Burdock's—blame— But mine— Who went too near The  Burdock's  Den— A  Bog—affronts my shoe— What else have  Bogs—to do— The only  Trade they know— The splashing  Men! Ah, pity—then!' Tis  Minnows can despise! The  Elephant's—calm eyes Look further on!
The  Grass so little has to do – A  Sphere of simple  Green –  With only  Butterflies to brood And  Bees to entertain – And stir all day to pretty  Tunes The  Breezes fetch along –  And hold the  Sunshine in its lap And bow to everything –  And thread the  Dews, all night, like  Pearls –  And make itself so fine A  Duchess were too common  For such a noticing –  And even when it dies – to pass In  Odors so divine –  Like  Lowly spices, lain to sleep –  Or  Spikenards, perishing –  And then, in  Sovereign  Barns to dwell –  And dream the  Days away,  The  Grass so little has to do I wish  I were a  Hay –
A bird came down the walk: He did not know  I saw;  He bit an angle-worm in halves And ate the fellow, raw. And then he drank a dew From a convenient grass, And then hopped sidewise to the wall To let a beetle pass. He glanced with rapid eyes That hurried all abroad,-  They looked like frightened beads,  I thought;  He stirred his velvet head Like one in danger; cautious, I offered him a crumb, And he unrolled his feathers And rowed him softer home Than oars divide the ocean, Too silver for a seam, Or butterflies, off banks of noon, Leap, splashless, as they swim.
 My friend attacks my friend!  Oh  Battle picturesque!  Then  I turn  Soldier too, And he turns  Satirist!  How martial is this place!  Had  I a mighty gun I think  I'd shoot the human race And then to glory run!
I have no life but this,  To lead it here; Nor any death, but lest Dispelled from there; Nor tie to earths to come, Nor action new, Except through this extent, The  Realm of  You!
 I send  Two  Sunsets— Day and  I—in competition ran— I finished  Two—and several  Stars— While  He—was making  One— His own was ampler—but as  I Was saying to a friend— Mine—is the more convenient To  Carry in the  Hand—
 Love reckons by itself—alone—" As large as  I"—relate the  Sun To  One who never felt it blaze— Itself is all the like it has—
 A  Cloud withdrew from the  Sky Superior  Glory be But that  Cloud and its  Auxiliaries Are forever lost to me Had  I but further scanned Had  I secured the  Glow In an  Hermetic  Memory It had availed me now. Never to pass the  Angel With a glance and a  Bow Till  I am firm in  Heaven Is my intention now.
I felt a  Funeral, in my  Brain, And  Mourners to and fro Kept treading--treading--till it seemed That  Sense was breaking through--  And when they all were seated, A  Service, like a  Drum--  Kept beating--beating--till  I thought My  Mind was going numb--  And then  I heard them lift a  Box And creak across my  Soul With those same  Boots of  Lead, again, Then  Space--began to toll, As all the  Heavens were a  Bell, And  Being, but an  Ear, And  I, and  Silence, some strange  Race Wrecked, solitary, here-- And then a  Plank in  Reason, broke, And  I dropped down, and down--  And hit a  World, at every plunge, And  Finished knowing--then--
 Heaven is so far of the  Mind That were the  Mind dissolved— The  Site—of it—by  Architect Could not again be proved—' Tis vast—as our  Capacity— As fair—as our idea— To  Him of adequate desire No further 'tis, than  Here—
 The  Brain—is wider than the  Sky— For—put them side by side— The one the other will contain With ease—and  You—beside— The  Brain is deeper than the sea— For—hold them— Blue to  Blue— The one the other will absorb— As  Sponges— Buckets—do— The  Brain is just the weight of  God— For— Heft them— Pound for  Pound— And they will differ—if they do— As  Syllable from  Sound—
' Twas just this time, last year,  I died. I know  I heard the  Corn, When  I was carried by the  Farms— It had the  Tassels on— I thought how yellow it would look— When  Richard went to mill— And then,  I wanted to get out, But something held my will. I thought just how  Red— Apples wedged The  Stubble's joints between— And the  Carts stooping round the fields To take the  Pumpkins in— I wondered which would miss me, least, And when  Thanksgiving, came, If  Father'd multiply the plates— To make an even  Sum— And would it blur the  Christmas glee My  Stocking hang too high For any  Santa  Claus to reach The  Altitude of me— But this sort, grieved myself, And so,  I thought the other way, How just this time, some perfect year— Themself, should come to me—
 Have you got a  Brook in your little heart, Where bashful flowers blow, And blushing birds go down to drink, And shadows tremble so— And nobody knows, so still it flows, That any brook is there, And yet your little draught of life Is daily drunken there— Why, look out for the little brook in  March, When the rivers overflow, And the snows come hurrying from the fills, And the bridges often go— And later, in  August it may be— When the meadows parching lie, Beware, lest this little brook of life, Some burning noon go dry!
 I'm the little " Heart's  Ease"! I don't care for pouting skies! If the  Butterfly delay Can  I, therefore, stay away? If the  Coward  Bumble  Bee In his chimney corner stay, I, must resoluter be! Who'll apologize for me? Dear,  Old fashioned, little flower! Eden is old fashioned, too! Birds are antiquated fellows! Heaven does not change her blue. Nor will  I, the little  Heart's  Ease— Ever be induced to do!
I counted till they danced so Their slippers leaped the town, And then  I took a pencil To note the rebels down. And then they grew so jolly I did resign the prig, And ten of my once stately toes Are marshalled for a jig!
 It is easy to work when the soul is at play— But when the soul is in pain— The hearing him put his playthings up Makes work difficult—then— It is simple, to ache in the  Bone, or the  Rind— But  Gimlets—among the nerve— Mangle daintier—terribler— Like a  Panter in the  Glove—
 Sweet—safe— Houses— Glad—gay— Houses— Sealed so stately tight— Lids of  Steel—on  Lids of  Marble— Locking  Bare feet out— Brooks of  Plush—in  Banks of  Satin Not so softly fall As the laughter—and the whisper— From their  People  Pearl— No  Bald  Death—affront their  Parlors— No  Bold  Sickness come To deface their  Stately  Treasures— Anguish—and the  Tomb— Hum by—in  Muffled  Coaches— Lest they—wonder  Why— Any—for the  Press of  Smiling— Interrupt—to die—
A little  Snow was here and there Disseminated in her  Hair -  Since she and  I had met and played Decade had gathered to  Decade -  But  Time had added not obtained Impregnable the  Rose For summer too indelible Too obdurate for  Snows -
 The  Definition of  Beauty is That  Definition is none— Of  Heaven, easing  Analysis, Since  Heaven and  He are one.
 Tho'  I get home how late—how late— So  I get home - 'twill compensate— Better will be the  Ecstasy That they have done expecting me— When  Night—descending—dumb—and dark— They hear my unexpected knock— Transporting must the moment be— Brewed from decades of  Agony! To think just how the fire will burn— Just how long-cheated eyes will turn— To wonder what myself will say, And what itself, will say to me— Beguiles the  Centuries of way!
' Twas  Crisis— All the length had passed— That dull—benumbing time There is in  Fever or  Event— And now the  Chance had come— The instant holding in its claw The privilege to live Or warrant to report the  Soul The other side the  Grave. The  Muscles grappled as with leads That would not let the  Will— The  Spirit shook the  Adamant— But could not make it feel. The  Second poised—debated—shot— Another had begun— And simultaneously, a  Soul Escaped the  House unseen—
 I took my  Power in my  Hand— And went against the  World—' Twas not so much as  David—had— But  I—was twice as bold— I aimed by  Pebble—but  Myself Was all the one that fell— Was it  Goliath—was too large— Or was myself—too small?
 South  Winds jostle them— Bumblebees come— Hover—hesitate— Dri nk, and are gone— Butterflies pause On their passage  Cashmere— I—softly plucking, Present them here!
 I cautious, scanned my little life— I winnowed what would fade From what would last till  Heads like mine Should be a-dreaming laid. I put the latter in a  Barn— The former, blew away. I went one winter morning And lo - my priceless  Hay Was not upon the " Scaffold"— Was not upon the " Beam"— And from a thriving  Farmer— A  Cynic,  I became. Whether a  Thief did it— Whether it was the wind— Whether  Deity's guiltless— My business is, to find! So  I begin to ransack! How is it  Hearts, with  Thee? Art thou within the little  Barn Love provided  Thee?
I cannot live with  You-- It would be  Life-- And  Life is over there-- Behind the  Shelf The  Sexton keeps the  Key to-- Putting up Our  Life-- His  Porcelain-- Like a  Cup-- Discarded of the  Housewife-- Quaint--or  Broke-- A newer  Sevres pleases-- Old  Ones crack-- I could not die--with  You-- For  One must wait To shut the  Other's  Gaze down-- You--could not-- And  I--could  I stand by And see  You--freeze-- Without my  Right of  Frost-- Death's privilege? Nor could  I rise--with  You-- Because  Your  Face Would put out  Jesus'-- That  New  Grace Glow plain--and foreign On my homesick  Eye-- Except that  You than  He Shone closer by-- They'd judge  Us-- How-- For  You--served  Heaven-- You know, Or sought to-- I could not-- Because  You saturated  Sight-- And  I had no more  Eyes For sordid excellence As  Paradise And were  You lost,  I would be-- Though  My  Name Rang loudest On the  Heavenly fame-- And were  You--saved-- And  I--condemned to be Where  You were not-- That self--were  Hell to  Me-- So  We must meet apart-- You there-- I--here-- With just the  Door ajar That  Oceans are--and  Prayer-- And that  White  Sustenance-- Despair--
 A  Dying  Tiger—moaned for  Drink— I hunted all the  Sand— I caught the  Dripping of a  Rock And bore it in my  Hand— His  Mighty  Balls—in death were thick— But searching— I could see A  Vision on the  Retina Of  Water—and of me—' Twas not my blame—who sped too slow—' Twas not his blame—who died While  I was reaching him— But 'twas—the fact that  He was dead—
 For this—accepted  Breath— Through it—compete with  Death— The fellow cannot touch this  Crown— By it—my title take— Ah, what a royal sake To my necessity—stooped down! No  Wilderness—can be Where this attendeth me— No  Desert  Noon— No fear of frost to come Haunt the perennial bloom— But  Certain  June! Get  Gabriel—to tell—the royal syllable— Get  Saints—with new—unsteady tongue— To say what trance below Most like their glory show— Fittest the  Crown!
 I learned—at least—what  Home could be— How ignorant  I had been Of pretty ways of  Covenant— How awkward at the  Hymn Round our new  Fireside—but for this— This pattern—of the  Way— Whose  Memory drowns me, like the  Dip Of a  Celestial  Sea— What  Mornings in our  Garden—guessed— What  Bees—for us—to hum— With only  Birds to interrupt The  Ripple of our  Theme— And  Task for  Both— When  Play be done— Your  Problem—of the  Brain— And mine—some foolisher effect— A  Ruffle—or a  Tune— The  Afternoons— Together spent— And  Twilight—in the  Lanes— Some ministry to poorer lives— Seen poorest—thro' our gains— And then  Return—and  Night—and  Home— And then away to  You to pass— A new—diviner—care— Till  Sunrise take us back to  Scene— Transmuted— Vivider— This seems a  Home— And  Home is not— But what that  Place could be— Afflicts me—as a  Setting  Sun— Where  Dawn—knows how to be—
 Patience—has a quiet  Outer— Patience— Look within— Is an  Insect's futile forces Infinites—between—' Scaping one—against the other Fruitlesser to fling— Patience—is the  Smile's exertion Through the quivering—
 Bereaved of all,  I went abroad— No less bereaved was  I Upon a  New  Peninsula— The  Grave preceded me— Obtained my  Lodgings, ere myself— And when  I sought my  Bed— The  Grave it was reposed upon The  Pillow for my  Head— I waked to find it first awake— I rose— It followed me— I tried to drop it in the  Crowd— To lose it in the  Sea— In  Cups of artificial  Drowse To steep its shape away— The  Grave—was finished—but the  Spade Remained in  Memory—
 The  Malay—took the  Pearl— Not— I—the  Earl— I—feared the  Sea—too much Unsanctified—to touch— Praying that  I might be Worthy—the  Destiny— The  Swarthy fellow swam— And bore my  Jewel— Home— Home to the  Hut!  What lot Had  I—the  Jewel—got— Borne on a  Dusky  Breasty— I had not deemed a  Vest Of  Amber—fit— The  Negro never knew I—wooed it—too— To gain, or be undone— Alike to  Him— One—
 Will there really be a " Morning"? Is there such a thing as " Day"? Could  I see it from the mountains If  I were as tall as they? Has it feet like  Water lilies? Has it feathers like a  Bird? Is it brought from famous countries Of which  I have never heard? Oh some  Scholar!  Oh some  Sailor! Oh some  Wise  Men from the skies! Please to tell a little  Pilgrim Where the place called " Morning" lies!
 I have a  King, who does not speak— So—wondering—thro' the hours meek I trudge the day away— Half glad when it is night, and sleep, If, haply, thro' a dream, to peep In parlors, shut by day. And if  I do—when morning comes— It is as if a hundred drums Did round my pillow roll, And shouts fill all my  Childish sky, And  Bells keep saying " Victory" From steeples in my soul! And if  I don't—the little  Bird Within the  Orchard, is not heard, And  I omit to pray" Father, thy will be done" today For my will goes the other way, And it were perjury!
 It tossed—and tossed— A little  Brig  I knew—o'ertook by  Blast— It spun—and spun— And groped delirious, for  Morn— It slipped—and slipped— As  One that drunken—stept— Its white foot tripped— Then dropped from sight— Ah,  Brig— Good  Night To  Crew and  You— The  Ocean's  Heart too smooth—too  Blue— To break for  You—
 That is solemn we have ended Be it but a  Play Or a  Glee among the  Garret Or a  Holiday Or a leaving  Home, or later, Parting with a  World We have understood for better Still to be explained.
 Doom is the  House without the  Door—' Tis entered from the  Sun— And then the  Ladder's thrown away, Because  Escape—is done—' Tis varied by the  Dream Of what they do outside— Where  Squirrels play—and  Berries die— And  Hemlocks—bow—to  God—
 The rainbow never tells me That gust and storm are by, Yet is she more convincing Than  Philosophy. My flowers turn from  Forums— Yet eloquent declare What  Cato couldn't prove me Except the birds were here!
 You love me—you are sure— I shall not fear mistake— I shall not cheated wake— Some grinning morn— To find the  Sunrise left— And  Orchards—unbereft— And  Dollie—gone! I need not start—you're sure— That night will never be— When frightened—home to  Thee  I run— To find the windows dark— And no more  Dollie—mark— Quite none? Be sure you're sure—you know— I'll bear it better now— If you'll just tell me so— Than when—a little dull  Balm grown— Over this pain of mine— You sting—again!
 What  Soft— Cherubic  Creatures— These  Gentlewomen are— One would as soon assault a  Plush— Or violate a  Star— Such  Dimity  Convictions— A  Horror so refined Of freckled  Human  Nature— Of  Deity—ashamed— It's such a common— Glory— A  Fisherman's— Degree— Redemption— Brittle  Lady— Be so—ashamed of  Thee—
 It can't be " Summer"! That—got through! It's early—yet—for " Spring"! There's that long town of  White—to cross— Before the  Blackbirds sing! It can't be " Dying"! It's too  Rouge— The  Dead shall go in  White— So  Sunset shuts my question down With  Cuffs of  Chrysolite!
" Houses"—so the  Wise  Men tell me—" Mansions"!  Mansions must be warm! Mansions cannot let the tears in, Mansions must exclude the storm!" Many  Mansions," by "his  Father," I don't know him; snugly built! Could the  Children find the way there— Some, would even trudge tonight!
 The  Robin is the  One That interrupt the  Morn With hurried—few—express  Reports When  March is scarcely on— The  Robin is the  One That overflow the  Noon With her cherubic quantity— An  April but begun— The  Robin is the  One That speechless from her  Nest Submit that  Home—and  Certainty And  Sanctity, are best
I lived on dread; to those who know The stimulus there is In danger, other impetus Is numb and vital-less. As't were a spur upon the soul, A fear will urge it where To go without the spectre's aid Were challenging despair.
An everywhere of silver, With ropes of sand To keep it from effacing The track called land.
Death sets a thing significant The eye had hurried by, Except a perished creature Entreat us tenderly To ponder little workmanships In crayon or in wool, With ' This was last her fingers did,' Industrious until The thimble weighed too heavy, The stitches stopped themselves, And then 't was put among the dust Upon the closet shelves. A book  I have, a friend gave, Whose pencil, here and there, Had notched the place that pleased him,-- At rest his fingers are. Now, when  I read,  I read not, For interrupting tears Obliterate the etchings Too costly for repairs.
 Within my  Garden, rides a  Bird Upon a single  Wheel— Whose spokes a dizzy  Music make As 'twere a travelling  Mill— He never stops, but slackens Above the  Ripest  Rose— Partakes without alighting And praises as he goes, Till every spice is tasted— And then his  Fairy  Gig Reels in remoter atmospheres— And  I rejoin my  Dog, And  He and  I, perplex us If positive, 'twere we— Or bore the  Garden in the  Brain This  Curiosity— But  He, the best  Logician, Refers my clumsy eye— To just vibrating  Blossoms! An  Exquisite  Reply!
 Me prove it now— Whoever doubt Me stop to prove it—now— Make haste—the  Scruple!  Death be scant For  Opportunity— The  River reaches to my feet— As yet— My  Heart be dry— Oh  Lover— Life could not convince— Might  Death—enable  Thee— The  River reaches to  My  Breast— Still—still— My  Hands above Proclaim with their remaining  Might— Dost recognize the  Love? The  River reaches to my  Mouth— Remember—when the  Sea Swept by my searching eyes—the last— Themselves were quick—with  Thee!
" Why do  I love"  You,  Sir? Because— The  Wind does not require the  Grass To answer— Wherefore when  He pass She cannot keep  Her place. Because  He knows—and Do not  You— And  We know not— Enough for  Us The  Wisdom it be so— The  Lightning—never asked an  Eye Wherefore it shut—when  He was by— Because  He knows it cannot speak— And reasons not contained—— Of  Talk— There be—preferred by  Daintier  Folk— The  Sunrise— Sire—compelleth  Me— Because  He's  Sunrise—and  I see— Therefore— Then— I love  Thee—
 Love—is anterior to  Life— Posterior—to  Death— Initial of  Creation, and The  Exponent of  Earth—
 I know that  He exists. Somewhere—in  Silence— He has hid his rare life From our gross eyes.' Tis an instant's play.' Tis a fond  Ambush— Just to make  Bliss Earn her own surprise! But—should the play Prove piercing earnest— Should the glee—glaze— In  Death's—stiff—stare— Wou ld not the fun Look too expensive! Would not the jest— Have crawled too far!
 There came a  Day at  Summer's full, Entirely for me— I thought that such were for the  Saints, Where  Resurrections—be— The  Sun, as common, went abroad, The flowers, accustomed, blew, As if no soul the solstice passed That maketh all things new— The time was scarce profaned, by speech— The symbol of a word Was needless, as at  Sacrament, The  Wardrobe—of our  Lord— Each was to each  The  Sealed  Church, Permitted to commune this—time— Lest we too awkward show At  Supper of the  Lamb. The  Hours slid fast—as  Hours will, Clutched tight, by greedy hands— So faces on two  Decks, look back, Bound to opposing lands— And so when all the time had leaked, Without external sound Each bound the  Other's  Crucifix— We gave no other  Bond— Sufficient troth, that we shall rise— Deposed—at length, the  Grave— To that new  Marriage, Justified—through  Calvaries of  Love—
 You love the  Lord—you cannot see— You write  Him—every day— A little note—when you awake— And further in the  Day. An  Ample  Letter— How you miss— And would delight to see— But then  His  House—is but a  Step— And  Mine's—in  Heaven— You see.
 I keep my pledge. I was not called— Death did not notice me. I bring my  Rose. I plight again, By every sainted  Bee— By  Daisy called from hillside—by  Bobolink from lane. Blossom and  I— Her oath, and mine— Will surely come again.
We grow accustomed to the  Dark -  When light is put away -  As when the  Neighbor holds the  Lamp To witness her  Goodbye -  A  Moment -   We uncertain step For newness of the night -  Then -  fit our  Vision to the  Dark -  And meet the  Road -  erect -  And so of larger -   Darknesses -  Those  Evenings of the  Brain -  When not a  Moon disclose a sign -  Or  Star -  come out -  within -  The  Bravest -  grope a little -  And sometimes hit a  Tree Directly in the  Forehead -  But as they learn to see -  Either the  Darkness alters -  Or something in the sight Adjusts itself to  Midnight -  And  Life steps almost straight.
 The  Sunset stopped on  Cottages Where  Sunset hence must be For treason not of  His, but  Life's, Gone  Westerly,  Today— The  Sunset stopped on  Cottages Where  Morning just begun— What difference, after all,  Thou mak'st Thou supercilious  Sun?
 Before  He comes we weigh the  Time!' Tis  Heavy and 'tis  Light. When  He depart, an  Emptiness Is the prevailing  Freight.
Like trains of cars on tracks of plush I hear the level bee: A jar across the flowers goes, Their velvet masonry Withstands until the sweet assault Their chivalry consumes, While he, victorious, tilts away To vanquish other blooms. His feet are shod with gauze, His helmet is of gold; His breast, a single onyx With chrysoprase, inlaid. His labor is a chant, His idleness a tune; Oh, for a bee's experience Of clovers and of noon!
 Bloom upon the  Mountain—stated— Blameless of a  Name— Efflorescence of a  Sunset— Reproduced—the same— Seed, had  I, my  Purple  Sowing Should endow the  Day— Not a  Topic of a  Twilight— Show itself away— Who for tilling—to the  Mountain Come, and disappear— Whose be  Her  Renown, or fading, Witness, is not here— While  I state—the  Solemn  Petals, Far as  North—and  East, Far as  South and  West—expanding— Culminate—in  Rest— And the  Mountain to the  Evening Fit  His  Countenance— Indicating, by no  Muscle— The  Experience—
' They have not chosen me,' he said,' But  I have chosen them!' Brave— Broken hearted statement— Uttered in  Bethlehem! I could not have told it, But since  Jesus dared— Sovereign!  Know a  Daisy They dishonor shared!
A thought went up my mind to-day That  I have had before, But did not finish,--some way back, I could not fix the year, Nor where it went, nor why it came The second time to me, Nor definitely what it was, Have  I the art to say. But somewhere in my soul,  I know I've met the thing before; It just reminded me--'t was all-- And came my way no more.
 I'm the little " Heart's  Ease"! I don't care for pouting skies! If the  Butterfly delay Can  I, therefore, stay away? If the  Coward  Bumble  Bee In his chimney corner stay, I, must resoluter be! Who'll apologize for me? Dear,  Old fashioned, little flower! Eden is old fashioned, too! Birds are antiquated fellows! Heaven does not change her blue. Nor will  I, the little  Heart's  Ease— Ever be induced to do!
There is no frigate like a book    To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page    Of prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take    Without oppress of toll; How frugal is the chariot    That bears a human soul!
The pedigree of honey Does not concern the bee; A clover, any time, to him Is aristocracy.
 The  Moon was but a  Chin of  Gold A  Night or two ago— And now she turns  Her perfect  Face Upon the  World below— Her  Forehead is of  Amplest  Blonde— Her  Cheek—a  Beryl hewn— Her  Eye unto the  Summer  Dew The likest  I have known— Her  Lips of  Amber never part— But what must be the smile Upon  Her  Friend she could confer Were such  Her  Silver  Will— And what a privilege to be But the remotest  Star— For  Certainty  She take  Her  Way Beside  Your  Palace  Door— Her  Bonnet is the  Firmament— The  Universe— Her  Shoe— The  Stars—the  Trinkets at  Her  Belt— Her  Dimities—of  Blue—
 The  Mountain sat upon the  Plain In his tremendous  Chair— His observation omnifold, His inquest, everywhere— The  Seasons played around his knees Like  Children round a sire— Grandfather of the  Days is  He Of  Dawn, the  Ancestor—
 I haven't told my garden yet— Lest that should conquer me. I haven't quite the strength now To break it to the  Bee— I will not name it in the street For shops would stare at me— That one so shy—so ignorant Should have the face to die. The hillsides must not know it— Where  I have rambled so— Nor tell the loving forests The day that  I shall go— Nor lisp it at the table— Nor heedless by the way Hint that within the  Riddle One will walk today—
Two butterflies went out at noon And waltzed above a stream, Then stepped straight through the firmament And rested on a beam; And then together bore away Upon a shining sea,-- Though never yet, in any port Their coming mentioned be. If spoken by the distant bird, If met in ether sea By frigate or by merchantman, Report was not to me.
 Could  I but ride indefinite As doth the  Meadow  Bee And visit only where  I liked And  No one visit me And flirt all  Day with  Buttercups And marry whom  I may And dwell a little everywhere Or better, run away With no  Police to follow Or chase  Him if  He do Till  He should jump  Peninsulas To get away from me— I said " But just to be a  Bee" Upon a  Raft of  Air And row in  Nowhere all  Day long And anchor "off the  Bar" What  Liberty!  So  Captives deem Who tight in  Dungeons are.
U P with the sun, the breeze arose, Across the talking corn she goes, And smooth she rustles far and wide Through all the voiceful countryside. Through all the land her tale she tells; She spins, she tosses, she compels The kites, the clouds, the windmill sails And all the trees in all the dales. God calls us, and the day prepares With nimble, gay and gracious airs: And from  Penzance to  Maidenhead The roads last night  He watered. God calls us from inglorious ease, Forth and to travel with the breeze While, swift and singing, smooth and strong She gallops by the fields along.
Nature the gentlest mother is,  Impatient of no child,  The feeblest of the waywardest.  Her admonition mild  In forest and the hill  By traveller be heard,  Restraining rampant squirrel  Or too impetuous bird.  How fair her conversation  A summer afternoon,  Her household her assembly;  And when the sun go down,  Her voice among the aisles  Incite the timid prayer  Of the minutest cricket,  The most unworthy flower.  When all the children sleep,  She turns as long away  As will suffice tolight her lamps,  Then bending from the sky  With infinite affection  An infiniter care,  Her golden finger on her lip,  Wills silence everywhere.
 There is a  Languor of the  Life More imminent than  Pain—' Tis  Pain's  Successor— When the  Soul Has suffered all it can— A  Drowsiness—diffuses— A  Dimness like a  Fog Envelops  Consciousness— As  Mists—obliterate a  Crag. The  Surgeon—does not blanch—at pain His  Habit—is severe— But tell him that it ceased to feel— The  Creature lying there— And he will tell you—skill is late— A  Mightier than  He— Has ministered before  Him— There's no  Vitality.
The wind begun to rock the grass With threatening tunes and low,-- He flung a menace at the earth, A menace at the sky. The leaves unhooked themselves from trees And started all abroad; The dust did scoop itself like hands And throw away the road. The wagons quickened on the streets, The thunder hurried slow; The lightning showed a yellow beak, And then a livid claw. The birds put up the bars to nests, The cattle fled to barns; There came one drop of giant rain, And then, as if the hands That held the dams had parted hold, The waters wrecked the sky But overlooked my father's house,lust quartering a tree.
 The  Veins of other  Flowers The  Scarlet  Flowers are Till  Nature leisure has for  Terms As " Branch," and " Jugular." We pass, and she abides. We conjugate  Her  Skill While  She creates and federates Without a syllable.
 To hear an  Oriole sing May be a common thing— Or only a divine. It is not of the  Bird Who sings the same, unheard, As unto  Crowd— The  Fashion of the  Ear Attireth that it hear In  Dun, or fair— So whether it be  Rune, Or whether it be none Is of within. The " Tune is in the  Tree—" The  Skeptic—showeth me—" No  Sir!  In  Thee!"
 Given in  Marriage unto  Thee Oh thou  Celestial  Host— Bride of the  Father and the  Son Bride of the  Holy  Ghost. Other  Betrothal shall dissolve— Wedlock of  Will, decay— Only the  Keeper of this  Ring Conquer  Mortality—
I like to see it lap the miles, And lick the valleys up, And stop to feed itself at tanks; And then, prodigious, step Around a pile of mountains, And, supercilious, peer In shanties by the sides of roads; And then a quarry pare To fit its sides, and crawl between, Complaining all the while In horrid, hooting stanza; Then chase itself down hill And neigh like  Boanerges; Then, punctual as a star, Stop--docile and omnipotent-- At its own stable door.
 When  Diamonds are a  Legend, And  Diadems—a  Tale— I  Brooch and  Earrings for  Myself, Do sow, and  Raise for sale— And tho'  I'm scarce accounted, My  Art, a  Summer  Day—had  Patrons— Once—it was a  Queen— And once—a  Butterfly—
 A feather from the  Whippoorwill That everlasting—sings! Whose galleries—are  Sunrise— Whose  Opera—the  Springs— Whose  Emerald  Nest the  Ages spin Of mellow—murmuring thread— Whose  Beryl  Egg, what  Schoolboys hunt In " Recess"— Overhead!
I see thee better—in the  Dark— I do not need a  Light— The  Love of  Thee—a  Prism be— Excelling  Violet— I see thee better for the  Years That hunch themselves between— The  Miner's  Lamp—sufficient be— To nullify the  Mine— And in the  Grave— I see  Thee best— Its little  Panels be Aglow— All ruddy—with the  Light I held so high, for  Thee— What need of  Day— To  Those whose  Dark—hath so—surpassing  Sun— It deem it be— Continually— At the  Meridian?
 As if some little  Arctic flower Upon the polar hem— Went wandering down the  Latitudes Until it puzzled came To continents of summer— To firmaments of sun— To strange, bright crowds of flowers— And birds, of foreign tongue! I say,  As if this little flower To  Eden, wandered in— What then?  Why nothing, Only, your inference therefrom!
 I think just how my shape will rise— When  I shall be "forgiven"— Till  Hair—and  Eyes—and timid  Head— Are out of sight—in  Heaven— I think just how my lips will weigh— With shapeless—quivering—prayer—  That you—so late—" Consider" me— The " Sparrow" of your  Care— I mind me that of  Anguish—sent— Some drifts were moved away— Before my simple bosom—broke— And why not this—if they? And so  I con that thing—"forgiven"— Until& mdash;delirious—borne— By my long bright—and longer—trust— I drop my  Heart—unshriven!
 A  Night—there lay the  Days between— The  Day that was  Before— And  Day that was  Behind—were one— And now—'twas  Night—was here— Slow— Night—that must be watched away— As  Grains upon a shore— Too imperceptible to note— Till it be night—no more—
The wind tapped like a tired man, And like a host, ' Come in,' I boldly answered; entered then My residence within A rapid, footless guest, To offer whom a chair Were as impossible as hand A sofa to the air. No bone had he to bind him, His speech was like the push Of numerous humming-birds at once From a superior bush. His countenance a billow, His fingers, if he pass, Let go a music, as of tunes Blown tremulous in glass. He visited, still flitting;  Then, like a timid man, Again he tapped- 't was flurriedly-  And  I became alone.
 Apology for  Her Be rendered by the  Bee— Herself, without a  Parliament Apology for  Me.
 A  Wife—at daybreak  I shall be— Sunrise— Hast thou a  Flag for me? At  Midnight,  I am but a  Maid, How short it takes to make a  Bride— Then— Midnight,  I have passed from thee Unto the  East, and  Victory— Midnight— Good  Night!  I hear them call, The  Angels bustle in the  Hall— Softly my  Future climbs the  Stair, I fumble at my  Childhood's prayer So soon to be a  Child no more— Eternity,  I'm coming— Sire, Savior— I've seen the face—before!
No rack can torture me, My soul's at liberty Behind this mortal bone There knits a bolder one  You cannot prick with saw, Nor rend with scymitar. Two bodies therefore be; Bind one, and one will flee.  The eagle of his nest No easier divest And gain the sky, Than mayest thou,  Except thyself may be Thine enemy; Captivity is consciousness, So's liberty.
 It always felt to me—a wrong To that  Old  Moses—done— To let him see—the  Canaan— Without the entering— And tho' in soberer moments— No  Moses there can be I'm satisfied—the  Romance In point of injury— Surpasses sharper stated— Of  Stephen—or of  Paul— For these—were only put to death— While  God's adroiter will On  Moses—seemed to fasten With tantalizing  Play As  Boy—should deal with lesser  Boy— To prove ability. The fault—was doubtless  Israel's— Myself—had banned the  Tribes— And ushered  Grand  Old  Moses In  Pentateuchal  Robes Upon the  Broad  Possession' Twas little— But titled  Him—to see— Old  Man on  Nebo!  Late as this— My justice bleeds—for  Thee!
 The difference between  Despair And  Fear—is like the  One Between the instant of a  Wreck And when the  Wreck has been— The  Mind is smooth—no  Motion— Contented as the  Eye Upon the  Forehead of a  Bust— That knows—it cannot see—
Delight becomes pictorial When viewed through pain,-- More fair, because impossible That any gain. The mountaln at a given distance In amber lies; Approached, the amber flits a little,-- And that's the skies!
 This that would greet—an hour ago— Is quaintest  Distance—now— Had it a  Guest from  Paradise— Nor glow, would it, nor bow— Had it a notice from the  Noon Nor beam would it nor warm— Match me the  Silver  Reticence— Match me the  Solid  Calm—
 Truth—is as old as  God— His  Twin identity And will endure as long as  He A  Co- Eternity— And perish on the  Day Himself is borne away From  Mansion of the  Universe A lifeless  Deity.
 Dropped into the  Ether  Acre— Wearing the  Sod  Gown— Bonnet of  Everlasting  Laces— Brooch—frozen on— Horses of  Blonde—and  Coach of  Silver— Baggage a strapped  Pearl— Journey of  Down—and  Whip of  Diamond— Riding to meet the  Earl—
 All these my banners be. I sow my pageantry In  May— It rises train by train— Then sleeps in state again— My chancel—all the plain      Today. To lose—if one can find again— To miss—if one shall meet— The  Burglar cannot rob—then— The  Broker cannot cheat. So build the hillocks gaily Thou little spade of mine Leaving nooks for  Daisy And for  Columbine— You and  I the secret Of the  Crocus know— Let us chant it softly—" There is no more snow!" To him who keeps an  Orchis' heart— The swamps are pink with  June.
' T was just this time last year  I died.    I know  I heard the corn, When  I was carried by the farms,--    It had the tassels on. I thought how yellow it would look    When  Richard went to mill; And then  I wanted to get out,    But something held my will. I thought just how red apples wedged    The stubble's joints between; And carts went stooping round the fields    To take the pumpkins in. I wondered which would miss me least,    And when  Thanksgiving came, If father'd multiply the plates    To make an even sum. And if my stocking hung too high,    Would it blur the  Christmas glee, That not a  Santa  Claus could reach    The altitude of me? But this sort grieved myself, and so    I thought how it would be When just this time, some perfect year,    Themselves should come to me.
 A darting fear—a pomp—a tear— A waking on a morn To find that what one waked for, Inhales the different dawn.
' Speech'—is a prank of  Parliament—' Tears'—is a trick of the nerve— But the  Heart with the heaviest freight on— Doesn't—always—move —
Each life converges to some centre Expressed or still; Exists in every human nature A goal, Admitted scarcely to itself, it may be, Too fair For credibility's temerity To dare. Adored with caution, as a brittle heaven, To reach Were hopeless as the rainbow's raiment To touch, Yet persevered toward, surer for the distance; How high Unto the saints' slow diligence The sky! Ungained, it may be, by a life's low venture, But then, Eternity enables the endeavoring Again.
 To wait an  Hour—is long— If  Love be just beyond— To wait  Eternity—is short— If  Love reward the end—
" Houses"—so the  Wise  Men tell me—" Mansions"!  Mansions must be warm! Mansions cannot let the tears in, Mansions must exclude the storm!" Many  Mansions," by "his  Father," I don't know him; snugly built! Could the  Children find the way there— Some, would even trudge tonight!
' Hope' is the thing with feathers— That perches in the soul— And sings the tune without the words— And never stops—at all— And sweetest—in the  Gale—is heard— And sore must be the storm— That could abash the little  Bird That kept so many warm— I've heard it in the chillest land— And on the strangest  Sea— Yet, never, in  Extremity, It asked a crumb—of  Me.
 That after  Horror—that 'twas us— That passed the mouldering  Pier— Just as the  Granite  Crumb let go— Our  Savior, by a  Hair— A second more, had dropped too deep For  Fisherman to plumb— The very profile of the  Thought Puts  Recollection numb— The possibility—to pass Without a  Moment's  Bell— Into  Conjecture's presence— Is like a  Face of  Steel— That suddenly looks into ours With a metallic grin— The  Cordiality of  Death— Who drills his  Welcome in—
 From  Blank to  Blank— A  Threadless  Way I pushed  Mechanic feet— To stop—or perish—or advance— Alike indifferent— If end  I gained It ends beyond Indefinite disclosed— I shut my eyes—and groped as well' Twas lighter—to be  Blind—
' Hope' is the thing with feathers— That perches in the soul— And sings the tune without the words— And never stops—at all— And sweetest—in the  Gale—is heard— And sore must be the storm— That could abash the little  Bird That kept so many warm— I've heard it in the chillest land— And on the strangest  Sea— Yet, never, in  Extremity, It asked a crumb—of  Me.
 Musicians wrestle everywhere— All day—among the crowded air I hear the silver strife— And—walking—long before the morn— Such transport breaks upon the town I think it that " New  Life"! If is not  Bird—it has no nest— Nor " Band"—in brass and scarlet—drest— Nor  Tamborin—nor  Man— It is not  Hymn from pulpit read— The " Morning  Stars" the  Treble led On  Time's first  Afternoon! Some—say—it is "the  Spheres"—at play! Some say that bright  Majority Of vanished  Dames—and  Men! Some—think it service in the place Where we—with late—celestial face— Please  God—shall  Ascertain!
 Crumbling is not an instant's  Act A fundamental pause Dilapidation's processes Are organized  Decays.' Tis first a  Cobweb on the  Soul A  Cuticle of  Dust A  Borer in the  Axis An  Elemental  Rust— Ruin is formal— Devil's work Consecutive and slow— Fail in an instant, no man did Slipping—is  Crash's law.
" I want"—it pleaded— All its life— I want—was chief it said When  Skill entreated it—the last— And when so newly dead— I could not deem it late—to hear That single—steadfast sigh— The lips had placed as with a " Please" Toward  Eternity—
Nature rarer uses yellow Than another hue; Saves she all of that for sunsets,-- Prodigal of blue, Spending scarlet like a woman, Yellow she affords Only scantly and selectly, Like a lover's words.
It dropped so low -- in my  Regard -- I heard it hit the  Ground -- And go to pieces on the  Stones At bottom of my  Mind -- Yet blamed the  Fate that flung it -- less Than  I denounced  Myself, For entertaining  Plated  Wares Upon  My  Silver  Shelf --
Abraham to kill him Was distinctly told— Isaac was an  Urchin— Abraham was old— Not a hesitation— Abraham complied— Flattered by  Obeisance Tyranny demurred— Isaac—to his children Lived to tell the tale— Moral—with a mastiff Manners may prevail.
 I could not prove the  Years had feet— Yet confident they run Am  I, from symptoms that are past And  Series that are done— I find my feet have further  Goals— I smile upon the  Aims That felt so ample— Yesterday— Today's—have vaster claims— I do not doubt the self  I was Was competent to me— But something awkward in the fit— Proves that—outgrown— I see—
 I tried to think a lonelier  Thing Than any  I had seen— Some  Polar  Expiation— An  Omen in the  Bone Of  Death's tremendous nearness— I probed  Retrieverless things My  Duplicate—to borrow— A  Haggard  Comfort springs From the belief that  Somewhere— Within the  Clutch of  Thought— There dwells one other  Creature Of  Heavenly  Love—forgot— I plucked at our  Partition As  One should pry the  Walls— Between  Himself—and  Horror's  Twin— Within  Opposing  Cells— I almost strove to clasp his  Hand, Such  Luxury—it grew— That as  Myself—could pity  Him— Perhaps he—pitied me—
Between  My  Country—and the  Others— There is a  Sea— But  Flowers—negotiate between us— As  Ministry.
" Arcturus" is his other name— I'd rather call him " Star." It's very mean of  Science To go and interfere! I slew a worm the other day— A " Savant" passing by Murmured " Resurgam"—" Centipede"!&q uot; Oh  Lord—how frail are we"! I pull a flower from the woods— A monster with a glass Computes the stamens in a breath— And has her in a "class"! Whereas  I took the  Butterfly Aforetime in my hat— He sits erect in " Cabinets"— The  Clover bells forgot. What once was " Heaven" Is " Zenith" now— Where  I proposed to go When  Time's brief masquerade was done Is mapped and charted too. What if the poles should frisk about And stand upon their heads! I hope  I'm ready for "the worst"— Whatever prank betides! Perhaps the " Kingdom of  Heaven's" changed— I hope the " Children" there  Won't be "new fashioned" when  I come— And laugh at me—and stare— I hope the  Father in the skies Will lift his little girl— Old fashioned—naught—everything— Over the stile of " Pearl."
 Besides the  Autumn poets sing A few prosaic days A little this side of the snow And that side of the  Haze— A few incisive  Mornings— A few  Ascetic  Eves— Gone— Mr.  Bryant's " Golden  Rod"— And  Mr.  Thomson's "sheaves." Still, is the bustle in the  Brook— Sealed are the spicy valves— Mesmeric fingers softly touch The  Eyes of many  Elves— Perhaps a squirrel may remain— My sentiments to share— Grant me,  Oh  Lord, a sunny mind— Thy windy will to bear!
She sweeps with many-colored brooms, And leaves the shreds behind; Oh, housewife in the evening west, Come back, and dust the pond! You dropped a purple ravelling in, You dropped an amber thread; And now you've littered all the  East With duds of emerald! And still she plies her spotted brooms, And still the aprons fly, Till brooms fade softly into stars -- And then  I come away.
 I reckon—when  I count it all— First— Poets— Then the  Sun— Then  Summer— Then the  Heaven of  God— And then—the  List is done— But, looking back—the  First so seems To  Comprehend the  Whole— The  Others look a needless  Show— So  I write— Poets— All— Their  Summer—lasts a  Solid  Year— They can afford a  Sun The  East—would deem extravagant— And if the  Further  Heaven— Be  Beautiful as they prepare For  Those who worship  Them— It is too difficult a  Grace— To justify the  Dream—
 I have never seen " Volcanoes"— But, when  Travellers tell How those old—phlegmatic mountains Usually so still— Bear within—appalling  Ordnance, Fire, and smoke, and gun, Taking  Villages for breakfast, And appalling  Men— If the stillness is  Volcanic In the human face When upon a pain  Titanic Features keep their place— If at length the smouldering anguish Will not overcome— And the palpitating  Vineyard In the dust, be thrown? If some loving  Antiquary, On  Resumption  Morn, Will not cry with joy " Pompeii"! To the  Hills return!
" Heaven" has different  Signs—to me— Sometimes,  I think that  Noon Is but a symbol of the  Place— And when again, at  Dawn, A mighty look runs round the  World And settles in the  Hills— An  Awe if it should be like that Upon the  Ignorance steals— The  Orchard, when the  Sun is on— The  Triumph of the  Birds When they together  Victory make— Some  Carnivals of  Clouds— The  Rapture of a finished  Day— Returning to the  West— All these—remind us of the place That  Men call "paradise"— Itself be fairer—we suppose— But how  Ourself, shall be Adorned, for a  Superior  Grace— Not yet, our eyes can see—
 I play at  Riches—to appease The  Clamoring for  Gold— It kept me from a  Thief,  I think, For often, overbold With  Want, and  Opportunity— I could have done a  Sin And been  Myself that easy  Thing An independent  Man— But often as my lot displays Too hungry to be borne I deem  Myself what  I would be— And novel  Comforting My  Poverty and  I derive— We question if the  Man— Who own— Esteem the  Opulence— As  We— Who never  Can— Should ever these exploring  Hands Chance  Sovereign on a  Mine— Or in the long—uneven term To win, become their turn— How fitter they will be—for  Want— Enlightening so well— I know not which,  Desire, or  Grant— Be wholly beautiful—
 But little  Carmine hath her face— Of  Emerald scant—her  Gown— Her  Beauty—is the love she doth— Itself—exhibit— Mine&md ash;
Tell all the truth but tell it slant, Success in circuit lies, Too bright for our infirm delight The truth's superb surprise;  As lightning to the children eased With explanation kind, The truth must dazzle gradually Or every man be blind.
 The  Trees like  Tassels—hit—and swung— There seemed to rise a  Tune From  Miniature  Creatures Accompanying the  Sun— Far  Psalteries of  Summer— Enamoring the  Ear They never yet did satisfy— Remotest—when most fair The  Sun shone whole at intervals— Then  Half—then utter hid— As if  Himself were optional And had  Estates of  Cloud Sufficient to enfold  Him Eternally from view— Except it were a whim of  His To let the  Orchards grow— A  Bird sat careless on the fence— One gossipped in the  Lane On silver matters charmed a  Snake Just winding round a  Stone— Bright  Flowers slit a  Calyx And soared upon a  Stem Like  Hindered  Flags— Sweet hoisted— With  Spices—in the  Hem—' Twas more— I cannot mention— How mean—to those that see— Vandyke's  Delineation Of  Nature's— Summer  Day!
A light exists in spring    Not present on the year At any other period.    When  March is scarcely here A color stands abroad    On solitary hills That science cannot overtake,    But human naturefeels. It waits upon the lawn;    It shows the furthest tree Upon the furthest slope we know;    It almost speaks to me. Then, as horizons step,    Or noons report away, Without the formula of sound,    It passes, and we stay: A quality of loss    Affecting our content, As trade had suddenly encroached    Upon a sacrament.
I meant to find her when  I came;    Death had the same design; But the success was his, it seems,    And the discomfit mine. I meant to tell her how  I longed    For just this single time; But  Death had told her so the first,    And she had hearkened him. To wander now is my abode;    To rest,--to rest would be A privilege of hurricane    To memory and me.
I went to heaven,--' T was a small town, Lit with a ruby, Lathed with down. Stiller than the fields At the full dew, Beautiful as pictures No man drew. People like the moth, Of mechlin, frames, Duties of gossamer, And eider names. Almost contented I could be' Mong such unique Society.
 As plan for  Noon and plan for  Night So differ  Life and  Death In positive  Prospective— The  Foot upon the  Earth At  Distance, and  Achievement, strains, The  Foot upon the  Grave Makes effort at conclusion Assisted faint of  Love.
 The first  Day's  Night had come— And grateful that a thing So terrible—had been endured— I told my  Soul to sing— She said her  Strings were snapt— Her  Bow—to  Atoms blown— And so to mend her—gave me work Until another  Morn— And then—a  Day as huge As  Yesterdays in pairs, Unrolled its horror in my face— Until it blocked my eyes— My  Brain—begun to laugh— I mumbled—like a fool— And tho' 'tis  Years ago—that  Day— My  Brain keeps giggling—still. And  Something's odd—within— That person that  I was— And this  One—do not feel the same— Could it be  Madness—this?
 To fill a  Gap Insert the  Thing that caused it— Block it up With  Other—and 'twill yawn the more— You cannot solder an  Abyss With  Air.
 Could  I—then—shut the door— Lest my beseeching face—at last— Rejected—be—of  Her?
The cricket sang, And set the sun, And workmen finished, one by one,    Their seam the day upon. The low grass loaded with the dew, The twilight stood as strangers do With hat in hand, polite and new,    To stay as if, or go. A vastness, as a neighbor, came,-- A wisdom without face or name, A peace, as hemispheres at home,--    And so the night became.
 Bless  God, he went as soldiers, His musket on his breast— Grant  God, he charge the bravest Of all the martial blest! Please  God, might  I behold him In epauletted white— I should not fear the foe then— I should not fear the fight!
 I could suffice for  Him,  I knew— He—could suffice for  Me— Yet  Hesitating  Fractions— Both Surveyed  Infinity—" Would  I be  Whole"  He sudden broached— My syllable rebelled—' Twas face to face with  Nature—forced—' Twas face to face with  God— Withdrew the  Sun—to  Other  Wests— Withdrew the furthest  Star Before  Decision—stooped to speech— And then—be audibler The  Answer of the  Sea unto The  Motion of the  Moon— Herself adjust  Her  Tides—unto— Could  I—do else—with  Mine?
 Who never lost, are unprepared A  Coronet to find! Who never thirsted Flagons, and  Cooling  Tamarind! Who never climbed the weary league— Can such a foot explore The purple territories On  Pizarro's shore? How many  Legions overcome— The  Emperor will say? How many  Colors taken On  Revolution  Day? How many  Bullets bearest? Hast  Thou the  Royal scar? Angels!  Write " Promoted" On this  Soldier's brow!
We like  March, his shoes are purple,    He is new and high; Makes he mud for dog and peddler,    Makes he forest dry; Knows the adder's tongue his coming,    And begets her spot. Stands the sun so close and mighty    That our minds are hot. News is he of all the others;    Bold it were to die With the blue-birds buccaneering    On his  British sky.
A long, long sleep, a famous sleep That makes no show for dawn By strech of limb or stir of lid, -- An independent one. Was ever idleness like this? Within a hut of stone To bask the centuries away Nor once look up for noon?
 Her breast is fit for pearls, But  I was not a " Diver"— Her brow is fit for thrones But  I have not a crest. Her heart is fit for home— I—a  Sparrow—build there Sweet of twigs and twine My perennial nest.
 A  Mien to move a  Queen— Half  Child— Half  Heroine— An  Orleans in the  Eye That puts its manner by For humbler  Company When none are near Even a  Tear— Its frequent  Visitor— A  Bonnet like a  Duke— And yet a  Wren's  Peruke Were not so shy Of  Goer by— And  Hands—so slight— They would elate a  Sprite With  Merriment— A  Voice that  Alters— Low And on the  Ear can go Like  Let of  Snow— Or shift supreme— As tone of  Realm On  Subjects  Diadem— Too small—to fear— Too distant—to endear— And so  Men  Compromise And just—revere—
' Speech'—is a prank of  Parliament—' Tears'—is a trick of the nerve— But the  Heart with the heaviest freight on— Doesn't—always—move —
 The  Bee is not afraid of me. I know the  Butterfly. The pretty people in the  Woods Receive me cordially— The  Brooks laugh louder when  I come— The  Breezes madder play; Wherefore mine eye thy silver mists, Wherefore,  Oh  Summer's  Day?
This quiet dust was gentlemen and ladies And lads and girls; Was laughter and ability and sighing, And frocks and curls; This passive place a summer's nimble mansion, Where bloom and bees Fulfilled their oriental circuit, Then ceased like these.
 The  Robin's my  Criterion for  Tune— Because  I grow—where  Robins do— But, were  I  Cuckoo born— I'd swear by him— The ode familiar—rules the  Noon— The  Buttercup's, my  Whim for  Bloom— Because, we're  Orchard sprung— But, were  I  Britain born, I'd  Daisies spurn— None but the  Nut— October fit— Because, through dropping it, The  Seasons flit— I'm taught— Without the  Snow's  Tableau Winter, were lie—to me— Because  I see— New  Englandly— The  Queen, discerns like me— Provincially—
 A  Day!  Help!  Help!  Another  Day! Your prayers, oh  Passer by! From such a common ball as this Might date a  Victory! From marshallings as simple The flags of nations swang. Steady—my soul:  What issues Upon thine arrow hang!
The dying need but little, dear,--    A glass of water's all, A flower's unobtrusive face    To punctuate the wall, A fan, perhaps, a friend's regret,    And certainly that one No color in the rainbow    Perceives when you are gone.
To my quick ear the leaves conferred;    The bushes they were bells; I could not find a privacy    From  Nature's sentinels. In cave if  I presumed to hide,    The walls began to tell; Creation seemed a mighty crack    To make me visible.
 There's something quieter than sleep Within this inner room! It wears a sprig upon its breast— And will not tell its name. Some touch it, and some kiss it— Some chafe its idle hand— It has a simple gravity I do not understand! I would not weep if  I were they— How rude in one to sob! Might scare the quiet fairy Back to her native wood! While simple-hearted neighbors Chat of the " Early dead"— We—prone to periphrasis Remark that  Birds have fled!
 He fumbles at your  Soul As  Players at the  Keys Before they drop full  Music on— He stuns you by degrees— Prepares your brittle  Nature For the  Ethereal  Blow By fainter  Hammers—further heard— Then nearer— Then so slow Your  Breath has time to straighten— Your  Brain—to bubble  Cool— Deals— One—imperial&mda sh; Thunderbolt— That scalps your naked  Soul— When  Winds take  Forests in the  Paws— The  Universe—is still—
Water makes many  Beds For those averse to sleep -  Its awful chamber open stands -  Its  Curtains blandly sweep -  Abhorrent is the  Rest In undulating  Rooms Whose  Amplitude no end invades -  Whose  Axis never comes.
' Twas such a little—little boat  That toddled down the bay!' Twas such a gallant—gallant sea That beckoned it away!' Twas such a greedy, greedy wave That licked it from the  Coast— Nor ever guessed the stately sails My little craft was lost!
 A happy lip—breaks sudden— It doesn't state you how It contemplated—smiling— Just consummated—now— But this one, wears its merriment So patient—like a pain— Fresh gilded—to elude the eyes Unqualified, to scan—
 If  He dissolve—then—there is nothing—more— Eclipse—at  Midnight— It was dark—before— Sunset—at  Easter— Blindness—on the  Dawn— Faint  Star of  Bethlehem— Gone down! Would but some  God—inform  Him— Or it be too late! Say—that the pulse just lisps— The  Chariots wait— Say—that a little life—for  His— Is leaking—red— His little  Spaniel—tell  Him! Will  He heed?
 If anybody's friend be dead It's sharpest of the theme The thinking how they walked alive— At such and such a time— Their costume, of a  Sunday, Some manner of the  Hair— A prank nobody knew but them Lost, in the  Sepulchre— How warm, they were, on such a day, You almost feel the date— So short way off it seems— And now—they're  Centuries from that— How pleased they were, at what you said— You try to touch the smile And dip your fingers in the frost— When was it— Can you tell— You asked the  Company to tea— Acquaintance—just a few— And chatted close with this  Grand  Thing That don't remember you— Past  Bows, and  Invitations— Past  Interview, and  Vow— Past what  Ourself can estimate— That—makes the  Quick of  Woe!
 Without this—there is nought— All other  Riches be As is the  Twitter of a  Bird— Heard opposite the  Sea— I could not care—to gain A lesser than the  Whole— For did not this include themself— As  Seams—include the  Ball? I wished a way might be My  Heart to subdivide—' Twould magnify—the  Gratitude— And not reduce—the  Gold—
 Summer for thee, grant  I may be When  Summer days are flown! Thy music still, when  Whipporwill And  Oriole—are done! For thee to bloom,  I'll skip the tomb And row my blossoms o'er! Pray gather me— Anemone— Thy flower—forevermore!
Our lives are  Swiss -- So still -- so  Cool -- Till some odd afternoon The  Alps neglect their  Curtains And we look farther on! Italy stands the other side! While like a guard between -- The solemn  Alps -- The siren  Alps Forever intervene!
 This was a  Poet— It is  That Distills amazing sense From ordinary  Meanings— And  Attar so immense From the familiar species That perished by the  Door— We wonder it was not  Ourselves Arrested it—before— Of  Pictures, the  Discloser— The  Poet—it is  He— Entitles  Us—by  Contrast— To ceaseless  Poverty— Of portion—so unconscious— The  Robbing—could not harm— Himself—to  Him—a  Fortune— Exterior—to  Time—
The day came slow, till five o'clock, Then sprang before the hills, Like hindered rubies, or the light, A sudden musket spills. The purple could not keep the east. The sunrise shook from fold. Like breadths of topaz, packed a night, The lady just unrolled. The happy winds their timbrels took; The birds in docile rows, Arranged themselves around their prince.( The wind is prince of those.) The orchard sparkled like a  Jew,--- How mighty 'twas to stay,  A guest in this stupendous place, The parlor of the day.
 I know some lonely  Houses off the  Road A  Robber'd like the look of— Wooden barred, And  Windows hanging low, Inviting to— A  Portico, Where two could creep— One—hand the  Tools— The other peep— To make sure  All's  Asleep— Old fashioned eyes— Not easy to surprise! How orderly the  Kitchen'd look, by night, With just a  Clock— But they could gag the  Tick— And  Mice won't bark— And so the  Walls—don't tell— None—will— A pair of  Spectacles ajar just stir— An  Almanac's aware— Was it the  Mat—winked, Or a  Nervous  Star? The  Moon—slides down the stair, To see who's there! There's plunder—where— Tankard, or  Spoon— Earring—or  Stone— A  Watch— Some  Ancient  Brooch To match the  Grandmama— Staid sleeping—there— Day—ratt les—too Stealth's—slow— T he  Sun has got as far As the third  Sycamore— Screams  Chanticleer" Who's there"? And  Echoes— Trains away, Sneer—" Where"! While the old  Couple, just astir, Fancy the  Sunrise—left the door ajar!
We play at paste, Till qualified for pearl, Then drop the paste, And deem ourself a fool. The shapes, though, were similar, And our new hands Learned gem-tactics Practising sands.
 A  Charm invests a face Imperfectly beheld— The  Lady dare not lift her  Veil For fear it be dispelled— But peers beyond her mesh— And wishes—and denies— Lest  Interview—annul a want That  Image—satisfies—
The soul selects her own society,    Then shuts the door;    On her divine majority    Obtrude no more.    Unmoved, she notes the chariot's pausing    At her low gate;    Unmoved, an emperor is kneeling    Upon her mat.    I've known her from an ample nation   Choose one   Then close the valves of her attention   Like stone.
 As if the  Sea should part And show a further  Sea— And that—a further—and the  Three But a presumption be— Of  Periods of  Seas— Unvisited of  Shores— Themselves the  Verge of  Seas to be— Eternity—is  Those—
 Those fair—fictitious  People— The  Women—plucked away From our familiar  Lifetime— The  Men of  Ivory— Those  Boys and  Girls, in  Canvas— Who stay upon the  Wall In  Everlasting  Keepsake— Can  Anybody tell? We trust—in places perfecter— Inheriting  Delight Beyond our faint  Conjecture— Our dizzy  Estimate— Remembering ourselves, we trust— Yet  Blesseder—than  We— Through  Knowing—where  We only hope— Receiving—where we—pray— Of  Expectation—also— Anticipating us With transport, that would be a pain Except for  Holiness— Esteeming us—as  Exile— Themself—admitted  Home— Through easy  Miracle of  Death— The  Way ourself, must come—
Apparently with no surprise, To any happy flower,  The frost beheads it at its play, In accidental power. The blond assassin passes on. The sun proceeds unmoved, To measure off another day, For an approving  God.
 One  Sister have  I in our house, And one, a hedge away. There's only one recorded, But both belong to me. One came the road that  I came— And wore my last year's gown— The other, as a bird her nest, Builded our hearts among. She did not sing as we did— It was a different tune— Herself to her a music As  Bumble bee of  June. Today is far from  Childhood— But up and down the hills I held her hand the tighter— Which shortened all the miles— And still her hum The years among, Deceives the  Butterfly; Still in her  Eye The  Violets lie Mouldered this many  May. I spilt the dew— But took the morn— I chose this single star From out the wide night's numbers— Sue - forevermore!
I breathed enough to learn the trick,    And now, removed from air, I simulate the breath so well,    That one, to be quite sure The lungs are stirless, must descend    Among the cunning cells, And touch the pantomime himself.    How cool the bellows feels!
 I'm sorry for the  Dead— Today— It's such congenial times Old  Neighbors have at fences— It's time o' year for  Hay. And  Broad— Sunburned  Acquaintance Discourse between the  Toil— And laugh, a homely species That makes the  Fences smile— It seems so straight to lie away From all of the noise of  Fields— The  Busy  Carts—the fragrant  Cocks— The  Mower's  Metre— Steals— A  Trouble lest they're homesick— Those  Farmers—and their  Wives— Set separate from the  Farming— And all the  Neighbors' lives— A  Wonder if the  Sepulchre Don't feel a lonesome way— When  Men—and  Boys—and  Carts—and  June, Go down the  Fields to " Hay"—
 The  Angle of a  Landscape— That every time  I wake— Between my  Curtain and the  Wall Upon an ample  Crack— Like a  Venetian—waiting— Accosts my open eye— Is just a  Bough of  Apples— Held slanting, in the  Sky— The  Pattern of a  Chimney— The  Forehead of a  Hill— Sometimes—a  Vane's  Forefinger— But that's— Occasional— The  Seasons—shift—my  Picture— Upon my  Emerald  Bough, I wake—to find no— Emeralds— Then— Diamonds&m dash;which the  Snow From  Polar  Caskets—fetched me— The  Chimney—and the  Hill— And just the  Steeple's finger— These—never stir at all—
' They have not chosen me,' he said,' But  I have chosen them!' Brave— Broken hearted statement— Uttered in  Bethlehem! I could not have told it, But since  Jesus dared— Sovereign!  Know a  Daisy They dishonor shared!
 A doubt if it be  Us Assists the staggering  Mind In an extremer  Anguish Until it footing find. An  Unreality is lent, A merciful  Mirage That makes the living possible While it suspends the lives.
 Two—were immortal twice— The privilege of few— Eternity—obtained—in  Time— Reversed  Divinity— That our ignoble  Eyes The quality conceive Of  Paradise superlative— Through their  Comparative.
Pain has an element of blank; It cannot recollect When it began, or if there were A day when it was not. It has no future but itself, Its infinite realms contain Its past, enlightened to perceive New periods of pain.
 Why—do they shut  Me out of  Heaven?  Did  I sing—too loud?  But— I can say a little ' Minor' Timid as a  Bird!  Wouldn't the  Angels try me— Just—once—more— Just—see—if  I troubled them— But don't—shut the door!  Oh, if  I—were the  Gentleman In the ' White  Robe'— And they—were the little  Hand—that knocked— Could— I—forbid?
 You're right—"the way is narrow"— And "difficult the  Gate"— And "few there be"— Correct again— That "enter in—thereat"—' Tis  Costly— So are purples!' Tis just the price of  Breath— With but the " Discount" of the  Grave— Termed by the  Brokers—" Death"! And after that—there's  Heaven— The  Good  Man's—" Dividend"— And  Bad  Men—"go to  Jail"— I guess—
 It sifts from  Leaden  Sieves— It powders all the  Wood. It fills with  Alabaster  Wool The  Wrinkles of the  Road— It makes an  Even  Face Of  Mountain, and of  Plain— Unbroken  Forehead from the  East Unto the  East again— It reaches to the  Fence— It wraps it  Rail by  Rail Till it is lost in  Fleeces— It deals  Celestial  Vail To  Stump, and  Stack—and  Stem— A  Summer's empty  Room— Acres of  Joints, where  Harvests were, Recordless, but for them-- It  Ruffles  Wrists of  Posts As  Ankles of a  Queen— Then stills its  Artisans—like  Ghosts— Denying they have been—
 The  Fingers of the  Light Tapped soft upon the  Town With " I am great and cannot wait So therefore let me in."" You're soon," the  Town replied," My  Faces are asleep— But swear, and  I will let you by, You will not wake them up." The easy  Guest complied But once within the  Town The transport of  His  Countenance Awakened  Maid and  Man The  Neighbor in the  Pool Upon  His  Hip elate Made loud obeisance and the  Gnat Held up  His  Cup for  Light.
 It is a lonesome  Glee— Yet sanctifies the  Mind— With fair association— Afar upon the  Wind A  Bird to overhear Delight without a  Cause— Arrestless as invisible— A matter of the  Skies.
 Two  Travellers perishing in  Snow The  Forests as they froze Together heard them strengthening Each other with the words That  Heaven if  Heaven—must contain What  Either left behind And then the cheer too solemn grew For language, and the wind Long steps across the features took That  Love had touched the  Morn With reverential  Hyacinth— The taleless  Days went on Till  Mystery impatient drew And those  They left behind Led absent, were procured of  Heaven As  Those first furnished, said—
" Nature" is what we see— The  Hill—the  Afternoon— Squirrel— Eclipse—the  Bumble bee— Nay— Nature is  Heaven— Nature is what we hear— The  Bobolink—the  Sea— Thunder—the  Cricket— Nay— Nature is  Harmony— Nature is what we know— Yet have no art to say— So impotent  Our  Wisdom is To her  Simplicity.
 I'm saying every day" If  I should be a  Queen, tomorrow"— I'd do this way— And so  I deck, a little, If it be,  I wake a  Bourbon, None on me, bend supercilious— With " This was she— Begged in the  Market place— Yesterday." Court is a stately place— I've heard men say— So  I loop my apron, against the  Majesty With bright  Pins of  Buttercup— That not too plain— Rank—overtake me— And perch my  Tongue On  Twigs of singing—rather high— But this, might be my brief  Term To qualify— Put from my simple speech all plain word— Take other accents, as such  I heard Though but for the  Cricket—just, And but for the  Bee— Not in all the  Meadow— One accost me— Better to be ready— Than did next morn Meet me in  Aragon— My old  Gown—on— And the surprised  Air Rustics—wear— Summoned&mdas h;unexpectedly— To  Exeter—
 I gained it so— By  Climbing slow— By  Catching at the  Twigs that grow Between the  Bliss—and me— It hung so high As well the  Sky Attempt by  Strategy— I said  I gained it— This—was all— Look, how  I clutch it Lest it fall— And  I a  Pauper go— Unfitted by an instant's  Grace For the  Contented— Beggar's face I wore—an hour ago—
 Perhaps you think me stooping I'm not ashamed of that Christ—stooped until  He touched the  Grave— Do those at  Sacrament Commemorative  Dishonor Or love annealed of love Until it bend as low as  Death Redignified, above?
 I saw no  Way— The  Heavens were stitched— I felt the  Columns close— The  Earth reversed her  Hemispheres— I touched the  Universe— And back it slid—and  I alone— A  Speck upon a  Ball— Went out upon  Circumference— Beyond the  Dip of  Bell—
 To make  One's  Toilette—after  Death Has made the  Toilette cool Of only  Taste we cared to please Is difficult, and still— That's easier—than  Braid the  Hair— And make the  Bodice gay— When eyes that fondled it are wrenched By  Decalogues—away—
 Again—his voice is at the door— I feel the old  Degree— I hear him ask the servant For such an one—as me— I take a flower—as  I go— My face to justify— He never saw me—in this life— I might surprise his eye! I cross the  Hall with mingled steps— I—silent—pass the door— I look on all this world contains— Just his face—nothing more! We talk in careless—and it toss— A kind of plummet strain— Each—sounding—shyly& mdash; Just—how—deep— The other's one—had been— We walk— I leave my  Dog—at home— A tender—thoughtful  Moon— Goes with us—just a little way— And—then—we are alone— Alone—if  Angels are "alone"— First time they try the sky! Alone—if those "veiled faces"—be— We cannot count—on  High! I'd give—to live that hour—again— The purple—in my  Vein— But  He must count the drops—himself— My price for every stain!
 As imperceptibly as  Grief The  Summer lapsed away— Too imperceptible at last To seem like  Perfidy— A  Quietness distilled As  Twilight long begun, Or  Nature spending with herself Sequestered  Afternoon— The  Dusk drew earlier in— The  Morning foreign shone— A courteous, yet harrowing  Grace, As  Guest, that would be gone— And thus, without a  Wing Or service of a  Keel Our  Summer made her light escape Into the  Beautiful.
I felt a cleaving in my mind    As if my brain had split; I tried to match it, seam by seam,    But could not make them fit. The thought behind  I strove to join    Unto the thought before, But sequence ravelled out of reach    Like balls upon a floor.
The only ghost  I ever saw Was dressed in mechlin, --so; He wore no sandal on his foot, And stepped like flakes of snow. His gait was soundless, like the bird, But rapid, like the roe; His fashions quaint, mosaic, Or, haply, mistletoe. Hi conversation seldom, His laughter like the breeze That dies away in dimples Among the pensive trees. Our interview was transient, -- Of me, himself was shy; And  God forbid  I look behind Since that appalling day!
' Arcturus' is his other name— I'd rather call him ' Star.' It's very mean of  Science To go and interfere!  I slew a worm the other day— A ' Savant' passing by Murmured ' Resurgam'—' Centipede'! ' Oh  Lord—how frail are we'!  I pull a flower from the woods— A monster with a glass Computes the stamens in a breath— And has her in a 'class'!  Whereas  I took the  Butterfly Aforetime in my hat— He sits erect in ' Cabinets'— The  Clover bells forgot. What once was ' Heaven' Is ' Zenith' now— Where  I proposed to go When  Time's brief masquerade was done Is mapped and charted too. What if the poles should frisk about And stand upon their heads!  I hope  I'm ready for 'the worst'— Whatever prank betides!  Perhaps the ' Kingdom of  Heaven's' changed— I hope the ' Children' there  Won't be 'new fashioned' when  I come— And laugh at me—and stare— I hope the  Father in the skies Will lift his little girl— Old fashioned—naught—everything— Over the stile of ' Pearl.'
 How well  I knew  Her not Whom not to know has been A  Bounty in prospective, now Next  Door to mine the  Pain.
 Unit, like  Death, for  Whom? True, like the  Tomb, Who tells no secret Told to  Him— The  Grave is strict— Tickets admit Just two—the  Bearer— And the  Borne— And seat—just  One— The  Living—tell— The  Dying—but a  Syllable— The  Coy  Dead— None— No  Chatter—here—no tea— So  Babbler, and  Bohea—stay there— But  Gravity—and  Expectation—and  Fear— A tremor just, that  All's not sure.
 She dealt her pretty words like  Blades— How glittering they shone— And every  One unbared a  Nerve Or wantoned with a  Bone— She never deemed—she hurt— That—is not  Steel's  Affair— A vulgar grimace in the  Flesh— How ill the  Creatures bear— To  Ache is human—not polite— The  Film upon the eye Mortality's old  Custom— Just locking up—to  Die.
 I dreaded that first  Robin, so, But  He is mastered, now, I'm accustomed to  Him grown, He hurts a little, though— I thought  If  I could only live Till that first  Shout got by— Not all  Pianos in the  Woods Had power to mangle me— I dared not meet the  Daffodils— For fear their  Yellow  Gown Would pierce me with a fashion So foreign to my own— I wished the  Grass would hurry— So—when 'twas time to see— He'd be too tall, the tallest one Could stretch—to look at me— I could not bear the  Bees should come, I wished they'd stay away In those dim countries where they go, What word had they, for me? They're here, though; not a creature failed— No  Blossom stayed away In gentle deference to me— The  Queen of  Calvary— Each one salutes me, as he goes, And  I, my childish  Plumes, Lift, in bereaved acknowledgment Of their unthinking  Drums—
 Banish  Air from  Air— Divide  Light if you dare— They'll meet While  Cubes in a  Drop Or  Pellets of  Shape Fit Films cannot annul Odors return whole Force  Flame And with a  Blonde push Over your impotence Flits  Steam.
 A  Tooth upon  Our  Peace The  Peace cannot deface— Then  Wherefore be the  Tooth? To vitalize the  Grace— The  Heaven hath a  Hell— Itself to signalize— And every sign before the  Place Is  Gilt with  Sacrifice—
This is my letter to the world,    That never wrote to me,-  The simple news that  Nature told,    With tender majesty Her message is committed    To hands  I cannot see;  For love of her, sweet countrymen,    Judge tenderly of me!
 I dwell in  Possibility— A fairer  House than  Prose— More numerous of  Windows— Superior—for  Doors— Of  Chambers as the  Cedars— Impregnable of  Eye— And for an  Everlasting  Roof The  Gambrels of the  Sky— Of  Visitors—the fairest— For  Occupation— This— The spreading wide of narrow  Hands To gather  Paradise—
A little road not made of man, Enabled of the eye, Accessible to thill of bee, Or cart of butterfly. If town it have, beyond itself,' T is that  I cannot say; I only sigh,--no vehicle Bears me along that way.
 Love—is anterior to  Life— Posterior—to  Death— Initial of  Creation, and The  Exponent of  Earth—
I died for beauty but was scarce Adjusted in the tomb, When one who died for truth was lain In an adjoining room. He questioned softly why  I failed?' For beauty,'  I replied.' And  I for truth,--the two are one; We brethren are,' he said. And so, as kinsmen met a night, We talked between the rooms, Until the moss had reached our lips, And covered up our names.
There's a certain  Slant of light, Winter  Afternoons-- That oppresses, like the  Heft Of  Cathedral  Tunes-- Heavenly  Hurt, it gives us-- We can find no scar, But internal difference, Where the  Meanings, are-- None may teach it-- Any--' Tis the  Seal  Despair-- An imperial affliction Sent us of the air-- When it comes, the  Landscape listens-- Shadows--hold their breath-- When it goes, 'tis like the  Distance On the look of  Death--
 A  Secret told— Ceases to be a  Secret—then— A  Secret—kept— That—can appal but  One— Better of it—continual be afraid— Than it— And  Whom you told it to—beside—
 From  Cocoon forth a  Butterfly As  Lady from her  Door Emerged—a  Summer  Afternoon— Repairing  Everywhere— Without  Design—that  I could trace Except to stray abroad On  Miscellaneous  Enterprise The  Clovers—understood— Her pretty  Parasol be seen Contracting in a  Field Where  Men made  Hay— Then struggling hard With an opposing  Cloud— Where  Parties— Phantom as  Herself— To  Nowhere—seemed to go In purposeless  Circumference— As 'twere a  Tropic  Show— And notwithstanding  Bee—that worked— And  Flower—that zealous blew— This  Audience of  Idleness Disdained them, from the  Sky— Till  Sundown crept—a steady  Tide— And  Men that made the  Hay— And  Afternoon—and  Butterfly— Extinguished—in the  Sea—
 A  Wounded  Deer—leaps highest— I've heard the  Hunter tell—' Tis but the  Ecstasy of death— And then the  Brake is still! The  Smitten  Rock that gushes! The trampled  Steel that springs! A  Cheek is always redder Just where the  Hectic stings! Mirth is the  Mail of  Anguish In which it  Cautious  Arm, Lest anybody spy the blood And "you're hurt" exclaim!
 Like eyes that looked on  Wastes— Incredulous of  Ought But  Blank—and steady  Wilderness— Diversified by  Night— Just  Infinites of  Nought— As far as it could see— So looked the face  I looked upon— So looked itself—on  Me— I offered it no  Help— Because the  Cause was  Mine— The  Misery a  Compact As hopeless—as divine— Neither—would be absolved— Neither would be a  Queen Without the  Other— Therefore— We perish—tho'  We reign—
 I live with  Him— I see  His face— I go no more away For  Visitor—or  Sundown— Death's single privacy The  Only  One—forestalling  Mine— And that—by  Right that  He Presents a  Claim invisible— No wedlock—granted  Me— I live with  Him— I hear  His  Voice— I stand alive— Today— To witness to the  Certainty Of  Immortality— Taught  Me—by  Time—the lower  Way— Conviction— Every day— That  Life like  This—is stopless— Be  Judgment—what it may—
' Twas like a  Maelstrom, with a notch, That nearer, every  Day, Kept narrowing its boiling  Wheel Until the  Agony Toyed coolly with the final inch Of your delirious  Hem— And you dropt, lost, When something broke— And let you from a  Dream— As if a  Goblin with a  Gauge— Kept measuring the  Hours— Until you felt your  Second Weigh, helpless, in his  Paws— And not a  Sinew—stirred—could help, And sense was setting numb— When  God—remembered—and the  Fiend Let go, then,  Overcome— As if your  Sentence stood—pronounced— And you were frozen led From  Dungeon's luxury of  Doubt To  Gibbets, and the  Dead— And when the  Film had stitched your eyes A  Creature gasped " Reprieve"! Which  Anguish was the utterest—then— To perish, or to live?
 She slept beneath a tree— Remembered but by me. I touched her  Cradle mute— She recognized the foot— Put on her carmine suit      And see!
 A science—so the  Savants say," Comparative  Anatomy"— By which a single bone— Is made a secret to unfold Of some rare tenant of the mold, Else perished in the stone— So to the eye prospective led, This meekest flower of the mead Upon a winter's day, Stands representative in gold Of  Rose and  Lily, manifold, And countless  Butterfly!
My  River runs to thee— Blue  Sea!  Wilt welcome me?  My  River wait reply— Oh  Sea—look graciously— I'll fetch thee  Brooks From spotted nooks— Say— Sea— Take  Me!
 A  House upon the  Height— That  Wagon never reached— No  Dead, were ever carried down— No  Peddler's  Cart—approached— Whose  Chimney never smoked— Whose  Windows— Night and  Morn— Caught  Sunrise first—and  Sunset—last— Then—held an  Empty  Pane— Whose fate— Conjecture knew— No other neighbor—did— And what it was—we never lisped— Because  He—never told—
I held a  Jewel in my fingers— And went to sleep— The day was warm, and winds were prosy— I said '' Twill keep'— I woke—and chid my honest fingers, The  Gem was gone— And now, an  Amethyst remembrance Is all  I own—
 You'll know it—as you know 'tis  Noon— By  Glory— As you do the  Sun— By  Glory— As you will in  Heaven— Know  God the  Father—and the  Son. By intuition,  Mightiest  Things Assert themselves—and not by terms—" I'm  Midnight"—need the  Midnight say—" I'm  Sunrise"— Need the  Majesty? Omnipotence—had not a  Tongue— His listp—is  Lightning—and the  Sun— His  Conversation—with the  Sea—" How shall you know"? Consult your  Eye!
 Would you like summer?  Taste of ours. Spices?  Buy here! Ill!  We have berries, for the parching! Weary!  Furloughs of down! Perplexed!  Estates of violet trouble ne'er looked on! Captive!  We bring reprieve of roses! Fainting!  Flasks of air! Even for  Death, a fairy medicine. But, which is it, sir?
 Is it dead— Find it— Out of sound— Out of sight—" Happy"?  Which is wiser— You, or the  Wind?" Conscious"?  Won't you ask that— Of the low  Ground?" Homesick"?  Many met it— Even through them— This Cannot testify— Themself—as dumb—
 Had  I not  This, or  This,  I said, Appealing to  Myself, In moment of prosperity— Inadequate—were  Life—" Thou hast not  Me, nor  Me"—it said, In  Moment of  Reverse—" And yet  Thou art industrious— No need—hadst  Thou—of us"? My need—was all  I had— I said— The need did not reduce— Because the food—exterminate— The hunger—does not cease— But diligence—is sharper— Proportioned to the  Chance— To feed upon the  Retrograde— Enfeebles—the  Advance—
 She died at play, Gambolled away Her lease of spotted hours, Then sank as gaily as a  Turn Upon a  Couch of flowers. Her ghost strolled softly o'er the hill Yesterday, and  Today, Her vestments as the silver fleece— Her countenance as spray.
' Tis  One by  One — the  Father counts — And then a  Tract between Set  Cypherless — to teach the  Eye The  Value of its  Ten — Until the peevish  Student Acquire the  Quick of  Skill — Then  Numerals are dowered back — Adorning all the  Rule —' Tis mostly  Slate and  Pencil — And  Darkness on the  School Distracts the  Children's fingers — Still the  Eternal  Rule Regards least  Cypherer alike With  Leader of the  Band — And every separate  Urchin's  Sum — Is fashioned for his hand —
 One  Blessing had  I than the rest So larger to my  Eyes That  I stopped gauging—satisfied— For this enchanted size— It was the limit of my  Dream— The focus of my  Prayer— A perfect—paralyzing  Bliss— Contented as  Despair— I knew no more of  Want—or  Cold— Phantasms both become For this new  Value in the  Soul— Supremest  Earthly  Sum— The  Heaven below the  Heaven above— Obscured with ruddier  Blue— Life's  Latitudes leant over—full— The  Judgment perished—too— Why  Bliss so scantily disburse— Why  Paradise defer— Why  Floods be served to  Us—in  Bowls— I speculate no more—
 The last  Night that  She lived It was a  Common  Night Except the  Dying—this to  Us Made  Nature different We noticed smallest things— Things overlooked before By this great light upon our  Minds Italicized—as 'twere. As  We went out and in Between  Her final  Room And  Rooms where  Those to be alive Tomorrow were, a  Blame That  Others could exist While  She must finish quite A  Jealousy for  Her arose So nearly infinite— We waited while  She passed— It was a narrow time— Too jostled were  Our  Souls to speak At length the notice came. She mentioned, and forgot— Then lightly as a  Reed Bent to the  Water, struggled scarce— Consented, and was dead— And  We— We placed the  Hair— And drew the  Head erect— And then an awful leisure was Belief to regulate—
 By  Chivalries as tiny, A  Blossom, or a  Book, The seeds of smiles are planted— Which blossom in the dark.
Heart, we will forget him, You and  I, tonight! You must forget the warmth he gave, I will forget the light. When you have done pray tell me, Then  I, my thoughts, will dim. Haste! ‘lest while you’re lagging I may remember him!
The  Soul selects her own  Society -- Then -- shuts the  Door -- To her divine  Majority -- Present no more -- Unmoved -- she notes the  Chariots -- pausing -- At her low  Gate -- Unmoved -- an  Emperor be kneeling Upon her  Mat -- I've known her -- from an ample nation -- Choose  One -- Then -- close the  Valves of her attention -- Like  Stone --
 Impossibility, like  Wine Exhilarates the  Man Who tastes it;  Possibility Is flavorless— Combine A  Chance's faintest  Tincture And in the former  Dram Enchantment makes ingredient As certainly as  Doom—
 Adrift!  A little boat adrift! And night is coming down! Will no one guide a little boat Unto the nearest town? So  Sailors say—on yesterday— Just as the dusk was brown One little boat gave up its strife And gurgled down and down. So angels say—on yesterday— Just as the dawn was red One little boat—o'erspent with gales— Retrimmed its masts—redecked its sails— And shot—exultant on!
Because  I could not stop for  Death, He kindly stopped for me; The carriage held but just ourselves And  Immortality. We slowly drove, he knew no haste, And  I had put away My labor, and my leisure too, For his civility. We passed the school where children played, Their lessons scarcely done; We passed the fields of gazing grain, We passed the setting sun. We paused before a house that seemed A swelling of the ground; The roof was scarcely visible. The cornice but a mound. Since then 'tis centuries; but each Feels shorter than the day I first surmised the horses' heads Were toward eternity.
 Going to  Heaven! I don't know when— Pray do not ask me how! Indeed  I'm too astonished To think of answering you! Going to  Heaven! How dim it sounds! And yet it will be done As sure as flocks go home at night Unto the  Shepherd's arm! Perhaps you're going too! Who knows? If you should get there first Save just a little space for me Close to the two  I lost— The smallest " Robe" will fit me And just a bit of " Crown"— For you know we do not mind our dress When we are going home— I'm glad  I don't believe it For it would stop my breath— And  I'd like to look a little more At such a curious  Earth! I'm glad they did believe it Whom  I have never found Since the might  Autumn afternoon I left them in the ground.
 Each  Second is the last Perhaps, recalls the  Man Just measuring unconsciousness The  Sea and  Spar between. To fail within a  Chance— How terribler a thing Than perish from the  Chance's list Before the  Perishing!
' Twas the old—road—through pain— That unfrequented—one— With many a turn—and thorn— That stops—at  Heaven— This—was the  Town—she passed— There—where she—rested—last— Then—stepped more fast— The little tracks—close prest— Then—not so swift— Slow—slow—as feet did weary—grow— Then—stopped—no other track! Wait!  Look!  Her little  Book— The leaf—at love—turned back— Her very  Hat— And this worn shoe just fits the track— Herself—though—fled! Another bed—a short one— Women make—tonight— In  Chambers bright— Too out of sight—though— For our hoarse  Good  Night— To touch her  Head!
Nature, the gentlest mother, Impatient of no child, The feeblest or the waywardest, Her admonition mild In forest and the hill By traveller is heard, Restraining rampant squirrel Or too impetuous bird. How fair her conversation, A summer afternoon,-- Her household, her assembly; And when the sun goes down Her voice among the aisles Incites the timid prayer Of the minutest cricket, The most unworthy flower. When all the children sleep She turns as long away As will suffice to light her lamps; Then, bending from the sky With infinite affection And infiniter care, Her golden finger on her lip, Wills silence everywhere.
" Unto  Me?"  I do not know you— Where may be your  House?" I am  Jesus— Late of  Judea— Now—of  Paradise"— Wagons—have you—to convey me? This is far from  Thence—" Arms of  Mine—sufficient  Phaeton— Trust  Omnipotence"— I am spotted—" I am  Pardon"— I am small—" The  Least Is esteemed in  Heaven the  Chiefest— Occupy my  House"—
 To interrupt  His  Yellow  Plan The  Sun does not allow Caprices of the  Atmosphere— And even when the  Snow Heaves  Balls of  Specks, like  Vicious  Boy Directly in  His  Eye— Does not so much as turn  His  Head Busy with  Majesty—' Tis  His to stimulate the  Earth— And magnetize the  Sea— And bind  Astronomy, in place, Yet  Any passing by Would deem  Ourselves—the busier As the  Minutest  Bee That rides—emits a  Thunder— A  Bomb—to justify—
 There is a flower that  Bees prefer— And  Butterflies—desire— To gain the  Purple  Democrat The  Humming  Bird—aspire— And  Whatsoever  Insect pass— A  Honey bear away Proportioned to his several dearth And her—capacity— Her face be rounder than the  Moon And ruddier than the  Gown Or  Orchis in the  Pasture— Or  Rhododendron—worn— She doth not wait for  June— Before the  World be  Green— Her sturdy little  Countenance Against the  Wind—be seen— Contending with the  Grass— Near  Kinsman to  Herself— For  Privilege of  Sod and  Sun— Sweet  Litigants for  Life— And when the  Hills be full— And newer fashions blow— Doth not retract a single spice For pang of jealousy— Her  Public—be the  Noon— Her  Providence—the  Sun— Her  Progress—by the  Bee—proclaimed— In sovereign— Swerveless  Tune— The  Bravest—of the  Host— Surrendering—the last— Nor even of  Defeat—aware— What cancelled by the  Frost—
They shut me up in  Prose -- As when a little  Girl They put me in the  Closet -- Because they liked me "still" -- Still!  Could themself have peeped -- And seen my  Brain -- go round -- They might as wise have lodged a  Bird For  Treason -- in the  Pound -- Himself has but to will And easy as a  Star Abolish his  Captivity -- And laugh --  No more have  I --
 The  Skies can't keep their secret! They tell it to the  Hills— The  Hills just tell the  Orchards— And they—the  Daffodils! A  Bird—by chance—that goes that way— Soft overhears the whole— If  I should bribe the little  Bird— Who knows but she would tell? I think  I won't—however— It's finer—not to know— If  Summer were an  Axiom— What sorcery had  Snow? So keep your secret— Father! I would not—if  I could, Know what the  Sapphire  Fellows, do, In your new-fashioned world!
 Their  Height in  Heaven comforts not— Their  Glory—nought to me—' Twas best imperfect—as it was— I'm finite— I can't see— The  House of  Supposition— The  Glimmering  Frontier that Skirts the  Acres of  Perhaps— To  Me—shows insecure— The  Wealth  I had—contented me— If 'twas a meaner size— Then  I had counted it until It pleased my narrow  Eyes— Better than larger values— That show however true— This timid life of  Evidence Keeps pleading—" I don't know."
 I envy  Seas, whereon  He rides— I envy  Spokes of  Wheels Of  Chariots, that  Him convey— I envy  Crooked  Hills That gaze upon  His journey— How easy  All can see What is forbidden utterly As  Heaven—unto me! I envy  Nests of  Sparrows— That dot  His distant  Eaves— The wealthy  Fly, upon  His  Pane— The happy—happy  Leaves— That just abroad  His  Window Have  Summer's leave to play— The  Ear  Rings of  Pizarro Could not obtain for me— I envy  Light—that wakes  Him— And  Bells—that boldly ring To tell  Him it is  Noon, abroad— Myself—be  Noon to  Him— Yet interdict—my  Blossom— And abrogate—my  Bee— Lest  Noon in  Everlasting  Night— Drop  Gabriel—and  Me—
" Heaven"—is what  I cannot reach! The  Apple on the  Tree— Provided it do hopeless—hang— That—" He aven" is—to  Me! The  Color, on the  Cruising  Cloud— The interdicted  Land— Behind the  Hill—the  House behind— There— Paradise—is found! Her teasing  Purples— Afternoons— The credulous—decoy— Enamored—of the  Conjuror— That spurned us— Yesterday!
 I was the slightest in the  House— I took the smallest  Room— At night, my little  Lamp, and  Book— And one  Geranium— So stationed  I could catch the  Mint That never ceased to fall— And just my  Basket— Let me think— I'm sure— That this was all— I never spoke—unless addressed— And then, 'twas brief and low— I could not bear to live—aloud— The  Racket shamed me so— And if it had not been so far— And any one  I knew Were going— I had often thought How noteless— I could die—
 The  Truth—is stirless— Other force—may be presumed to move— This—then—is best for confidence— When oldest  Cedars swerve— And  Oaks untwist their fists— And  Mountains—feeble—lean— How excellent a  Body, that Stands without a  Bone— How vigorous a  Force That holds without a  Prop— Truth stays  Herself—and every man That trusts  Her—boldly up—
 When  Roses cease to bloom,  Sir, And  Violets are done— When  Bumblebees in solemn flight Have passed beyond the  Sun— The hand that paused to gather Upon this  Summer's day Will idle lie—in  Auburn— Then take my flowers—pray!
Pain--has an  Element of  Blank--  It cannot recollect  When it begun--or if there were  A time when it was not--  It has no  Future--but itself--  Its  Infinite  Contain  Its  Past--enlightened to perceive  New  Periods--of  Pain.
 My  Reward for  Being, was  This. My premium— My  Bliss— An  Admiralty, less— A  Sceptre—penniless— And  Realms—just  Dross— When  Thrones accost my  Hands— With " Me,  Miss,  Me"— I'll unroll  Thee— Dominions dowerless—beside this  Grace— Election— Vote— The  Ballots of  Eternity, will show just that.
 It was too late for  Man— But early, yet, for  God— Creation—impotent to help— But  Prayer—remained— Our  Side— How excellent the  Heaven— When  Earth—cannot be had— How hospitable—then—the face Of our  Old  Neighbor— God—
Going to him!  Happy letter!  Tell him-- Tell him the page  I didn't write; Tell him  I only said the syntax, And left the verb and the pronoun out. Tell him just how the fingers hurried Then how they waded, slow, slow, slow- And then you wished you had eyes in your pages, So you could see what moved them so.' Tell him it wasn't a practised writer, You guessed, from the way the sentence toiled; You could hear the bodice tug, behind you, As if it held but the might of a child; You almost pitied it, you, it worked so. Tell him-- No, you may quibble there, For it would split his heart to know it, And then you and  I were silenter.' Tell him night finished before we finished And the old clock kept neighing 'day!' And you got sleepy and begged to be ended-- What could it hinder so, to say? Tell him just how she sealed you, cautious But if he ask where you are hid Until to-morrow,--happy letter! Gesture, coquette, and shake your head!'
 Exhilaration—is within— There can no  Outer  Wine So royally intoxicate As that diviner  Brand The  Soul achieves— Herself— To drink—or set away For  Visitor— Or  Sacrament—' Tis not of  Holiday To stimulate a  Man Who hath the  Ample  Rhine Within his  Closet— Best you can Exhale in offering.
 Some, too fragile for winter winds The thoughtful grave encloses— Tenderly tucking them in from frost Before their feet are cold. Never the treasures in her nest The cautious grave exposes, Building where schoolboy dare not look, And sportsman is not bold. This covert have all the children Early aged, and often cold, Sparrow, unnoticed by the  Father— Lambs for whom time had not a fold.
 The name—of it—is ' Autumn'— The hue—of it—is  Blood— An  Artery—upon the  Hill— A  Vein—along the  Road— Great  Globules—in the  Alleys— And  Oh, the  Shower of  Stain— When  Winds—upset the  Basin— And spill the  Scarlet  Rain— It sprinkles  Bonnets—far below— It gathers ruddy  Pools— Then—eddies like a  Rose—away— Upon  Vermilion  Wheels—
 It's all  I have to bring today— This, and my heart beside— This, and my heart, and all the fields— And all the meadows wide— Be sure you count—should  I forget Some one the sum could tell— This, and my heart, and all the  Bees Which in the  Clover dwell.
 The morns are meeker than they were— The nuts are getting brown— The berry's cheek is plumper— The  Rose is out of town. The  Maple wears a gayer scarf— The field a scarlet gown— Lest  I should be old fashioned I'll put a trinket on.
 In falling  Timbers buried— There breathed a  Man— Outside—the spades—were plying— The  Lungs—within— Could  He—know—they sought  Him— Could  They—know— He breathed— Horrid  Sand  Partition— Neither—could be heard— Never slacked the  Diggers— But when  Spades had done— Oh,  Reward of  Anguish, It was dying— Then— Many  Things—are fruitless—' Tis a  Baffling  Earth— But there is no  Gratitude Like the  Grace—of  Death—
I stepped from plank to plank    So slow and cautiously; The stars about my head  I felt,    About my feet the sea. I knew not but the next    Would be my final inch,-- This gave me that precarious gait    Some call experience.
There is another sky, Ever serene and fair, And there is another sunshine, Though it be darkness there;  Never mind faded forests,  Austin, Never mind silent fields— Here is a little forest, Whose leaf is ever green;  Here is a brighter garden, Where not a frost has been;  In its unfading flowers I hear the bright bee hum: Prithee, my brother, Into my garden come!
 Fame is a bee. It has a song— It has a sting— Ah, too, it has a wing.
 I gave myself to  Him— And took  Himself, for  Pay, The solemn contract of a  Life Was ratified, this way— The  Wealth might disappoint— Myself a poorer prove Than this great  Purchaser suspect, The  Daily  Own—of  Love Depreciate the  Vision— But till the  Merchant buy— Still  Fable—in the  Isles of  Spice— The subtle  Cargoes—lie— At least—'tis  Mutual— Risk— Some—found it— Mutual  Gain— Sweet  Debt of  Life— Each  Night to owe— Insolvent—every  Noon—
 I can wade  Grief— Whole  Pools of it— I'm used to that— But the least push of  Joy Breaks up my feet— And  I tip—drunken— Let no  Pebble—smile—' Twas the  New  Liquor— That was all! Power is only  Pain— Stranded, thro'  Discipline, Till  Weights—will hang— Give  Balm—to  Giants— And they'll wilt, like  Men— Give  Himmaleh— They'll  Carry— Him!
 A  Death blow is a  Life blow to  Some Who till they died, did not alive become— Who had they lived, had died but when They died,  Vitality begun.
 A sepal, petal, and a thorn Upon a common summer's morn— A flask of  Dew— A  Bee or two— A  Breeze—a caper in the trees— And  I'm a  Rose!
If  I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain; If  I can ease one life the aching, Or cool one pain, Or help one fainting robin Unto his nest again, I shall not live in vain.
 Water, is taught by thirst. Land—by the  Oceans passed. Transport—by throe— Peace—by its battles told— Love, by  Memorial  Mold— Birds, by the  Snow.
 Fame of  Myself, to justify, All other  Plaudit be Superfluous— An  Incense Beyond  Necessity— Fame of  Myself to lack— Although My  Name be else  Supreme— This were an  Honor honorless— A futile  Diadem—
 We can but follow to the  Sun— As oft as  He go down He leave  Ourselves a  Sphere behind—' Tis mostly—following— We go no further with the  Dust Than to the  Earthen  Door— And then the  Panels are reversed— And we behold—no more.
The bustle in a house The morning after death Is solemnest of industries Enacted upon earth,- The sweeping up the heart, And putting love away We shall not want to use again Until eternity.
" Sic transit gloria mundi,"  " How doth the busy bee,"" Dum vivimus vivamus,"   I stay mine enemy! Oh "veni, vidi, vici!"   Oh caput cap-a-pie! And oh "memento mori"   When  I am far from thee! Hurrah for  Peter  Parley!   Hurrah for  Daniel  Boone! Three cheers, sir, for the gentleman   Who first observed the moon! Peter, put up the sunshine;   Patti, arrange the stars; Tell  Luna, tea is waiting,   And call your brother  Mars! Put down the apple,  Adam,   And come away with me, So shalt thou have a pippin   From off my father's tree! I climb the " Hill of  Science,"   I "view the landscape o'er;" Such transcendental prospect,   I ne'er beheld before! Unto the  Legislature   My country bids me go; I'll take my india rubbers,   In case the wind should blow! During my education,   It was announced to me That gravitation, stumbling,   Fell from an apple tree! The earth upon an axis   Was once supposed to turn, By way of a gymnastic   In honor of the sun! It was the brave  Columbus,   A sailing o'er the tide, Who notified the nations   Of where  I would reside! Mortality is fatal—   Gentility is fine, Rascality, heroic,   Insolvency, sublime! Our  Fathers being weary,   Laid down on  Bunker  Hill; And tho' full many a morning,   Yet they are sleeping still,— The trumpet, sir, shall wake them,   In dreams  I see them rise, Each with a solemn musket   A marching to the skies! A coward will remain,  Sir,   Until the fight is done; But an immortal hero   Will take his hat, and run! Good bye,  Sir,  I am going;   My country calleth me; Allow me,  Sir, at parting,   To wipe my weeping e'e. In token of our friendship   Accept this " Bonnie  Doon," And when the hand that plucked it   Hath passed beyond the moon, The memory of my ashes   Will consolation be; Then, farewell,  Tuscarora,   And farewell,  Sir, to thee!
I'm nobody!  Who are you? Are you nobody, too? Then there's a pair of us -- don't tell! They'd banish -- you know! How dreary to be somebody! How public like a frog To tell one's name the livelong day To an admiring bog!
 These are the days when  Birds come back— A very few—a  Bird or two— To take a backward look. These are the days when skies resume The old—old sophistries of  June— A blue and gold mistake. Oh fraud that cannot cheat the  Bee— Almost thy plausibility Induces my belief. Till ranks of seeds their witness bear— And softly thro' the altered air Hurries a timid leaf. Oh  Sacrament of summer days, Oh  Last  Communion in the  Haze— Permit a child to join. Thy sacred emblems to partake— They consecrated bread to take And thine immortal wine!
 I should not dare to leave my friend, Because—because if he should die While  I was gone—and  I—too late— Should reach the  Heart that wanted me— If  I should disappoint the eyes That hunted—hunted so—to see— And could not bear to shut until They "noticed" me—they noticed me— If  I should stab the patient faith So sure  I'd come—so sure  I'd come— It listening—listening—went to sleep— Telling my tardy name— My  Heart would wish it broke before— Since breaking then—since breaking then— Were useless as next morning's sun— Where midnight frosts—had lain!
 Some— Work for  Immortality— The  Chiefer part, for  Time— He— Compensates—immediately— The former— Checks—on  Fame— Slow  Gold—but  Everlasting— The  Bullion of  Today— Contrasted with the  Currency Of  Immortality— A  Beggar— Here and  There— Is gifted to discern Beyond the  Broker's insight— One's— Money— One's—the  Mine—
" Faith" is a fine invention When  Gentlemen can see— But  Microscopes are prudent In an  Emergency.
 Expectation—is  Contentment— Gain— Satiety— But  Satiety— Conviction Of  Necessity Of an  Austere trait in  Pleasure— Good, without alarm Is a too established  Fortune— Danger—deepens  Sum—
 That first  Day, when you praised  Me,  Sweet, And said that  I was strong— And could be mighty, if  I liked— That  Day—the  Days among— Glows  Central—like a  Jewel Between  Diverging  Golds— The  Minor  One—that gleamed behind— And  Vaster—of the  World's.
 The  Leaves like  Women interchange Exclusive  Confidence— Somewhat of nods and somewhat Portentous inference. The  Parties in both cases Enjoining secrecy— Inviolable compact To notoriety.
You said that  I "was  Great"—one  Day— Then " Great" it be—if that please  Thee— Or  Small—or any size at all— Nay— I'm the size suit  Thee— Tall—like the  Stag—would that? Or lower—like the  Wren— Or other heights of  Other  Ones I've seen? Tell which—it's dull to guess— And  I must be  Rhinoceros Or  Mouse— At once—for  Thee— So say—if  Queen it be— Or  Page—please  Thee— I'm that—or nought— Or other thing—if other thing there be— With just this  Stipulus— I suit  Thee—
 How many times these low feet staggered— Only the soldered mouth can tell— Try—can you stir the awful rivet— Try—can you lift the hasps of steel! Stroke the cool forehead—hot so often— Lift—if you care—the listless hair— Handle the adamantine fingers Never a thimble—more—shall wear— Buzz the dull flies—on the chamber window— Brave—shines the sun through the freckled pane— Fearless—the cobweb swings from the ceiling— Indolent  Housewife—in  Daisies—lain!
 Frequently the wood are pink— Frequently are brown. Frequently the hills undress Behind my native town. Oft a head is crested I was wont to see— And as oft a cranny Where it used to be— And the  Earth— they tell me— On its  Axis turned! Wonderful  Rotation! By but twelve performed!
 You cannot put a  Fire out— A  Thing that can ignite Can go, itself, without a  Fan— Upon the slowest  Night— You cannot fold a  Flood— And put it in a  Drawer— Because the  Winds would find it out— And tell your  Cedar  Floor—
 A  Cloud withdrew from the  Sky Superior  Glory be But that  Cloud and its  Auxiliaries Are forever lost to me Had  I but further scanned Had  I secured the  Glow In an  Hermetic  Memory It had availed me now. Never to pass the  Angel With a glance and a  Bow Till  I am firm in  Heaven Is my intention now.
 I never felt at  Home— Below—- And in the  Handsome  Skies I shall not feel at  Home— I know— I don't like  Paradise— Because it's  Sunday—all the time— And  Recess—never comes— And  Eden'll be so lonesome Bright  Wednesday  Afternoons— If  God could make a visit— Or ever took a  Nap— So not to see us—but they say Himself—a  Telescope Perennial beholds us— Myself would run away From  Him—and  Holy  Ghost—and  All— But there's the " Judgement  Day"!
 Away from  Home are some and  I— An  Emigrant to be In a  Metropolis of  Homes Is easy, possibly— The  Habit of a  Foreign  Sky We—difficult—acquire As  Children, who remain in  Face The more their  Feet retire.
A little  Dog that wags his tail And knows no other joy Of such a little  Dog am  I Reminded by a  Boy Who gambols all the living  Day Without an earthly cause Because he is a little  Boy I honestly suppose -  The  Cat that in the  Corner dwells Her martial  Day forgot The  Mouse but a  Tradition now Of her desireless  Lot Another class remind me Who neither please nor play But not to make a 'bit of noise' Beseech each little  Boy -
 As  Frost is best conceived By force of its  Result— Affliction is inferred By subsequent effect— If when the sun reveal, The  Garden keep the  Gash— If as the  Days resume The wilted countenance Cannot correct the crease Or counteract the stain— Presumption is  Vitality Was somewhere put in twain.
 A transport one cannot contain May yet a transport be— Though  God forbid it lift the lid— Unto its  Ecstasy! A  Diagram—of  Rapture! A sixpence at a  Show— With  Holy  Ghosts in  Cages! The  Universe would go!
 The  Luxury to apprehend The  Luxury 'twould be To look at  Thee a single time An  Epicure of  Me In whatsoever  Presence makes Till for a further  Food I scarcely recollect to starve So first am  I supplied— The  Luxury to meditate The  Luxury it was To banguet on thy  Countenance A  Sumptuousness bestows On plainer  Days, whose  Table far As  Certainty can see Is laden with a single  Crumb The  Consciousness of  Thee.
 How far is it to  Heaven? As far as  Death this way— Of  River or of  Ridge beyond Was no discovery. How far is it to  Hell? As far as  Death this way— How far left hand the  Sepulchre Defies  Topography.
There cam a  Wind like a  Bugle - It quivered through the  Grass And a  Green  Chill upon the  Heat So ominous did pass We barred the  Windows and the  Doors As from an  Emerald  Ghost - The  Doom's electric  Moccasin The very instant passed - On a strange  Mob of panting  Trees And  Fences fled away And  Rivers where the  Houses ran Those looked that lived - that  Day - The  Bell within the steeple wild The flying tidings told - How much can come And much can go, And yet abide the  World!
 Ambition cannot find him. Affection doesn't know How many leagues of nowhere Lie between them now. Yesterday, undistinguished! Eminent  Today For our mutual hone,  Immortality!
The heart asks pleasure first And then, excuse from pain- And then, those little anodynes That deaden suffering; And then, to go to sleep; And then, if it should be The will of its  Inquisitor, The liberty to die.
They say that 'time assuages,'--    Time never did assuage; An actual suffering strengthens,    As sinews do, with age. Time is a test of trouble,    But not a remedy. If such it prove, it prove too    There was no malady.
 I robbed the  Woods— The trusting  Woods. The unsuspecting  Trees Brought out their  Burs and mosses My fantasy to please. I scanned their trinkets curious— I grasped— I bore away— What will the solemn  Hemlock— What will the  Oak tree say?
 How fortunate the  Grave— All  Prizes to obtain— Successful certain, if at last, First  Suitor not in vain.
 I cannot be ashamed Because  I cannot see The love you offer— Magnitude Reverses  Modesty And  I cannot be proud Because a  Height so high Involves  Alpine Requirements And  Services of  Snow.
There's been a death in the opposite house    As lately as to-day. I know it by the numb look    Such houses have alway. The neighbors rustle in and out,    The doctor drives away. A window opens like a pod,    Abrupt, mechanically; Somebody flings a mattress out,--    The children hurry by; They wonder if  It died on that,--    I used to when a boy. The minister goes stiffly in    As if the house were his, And he owned all the mourners now,    And little boys besides; And then the milliner, and the man    Of the appalling trade, To take the measure of the house.    There'll be that dark parade Of tassels and of coaches soon;    It's easy as a sign,-- The intuition of the news    In just a country town.
 To love thee  Year by  Year— May less appear Than sacrifice, and cease— However, dear, Forever might be short,  I thought to show— And so  I pieced it, with a flower, now.
 Nature—sometimes sears a  Sapling— Sometimes—scalps a  Tree— Her  Green  People recollect it When they do not die— Fainter  Leaves—to  Further  Seasons— Dumbly testify— We—who have the  Souls— Die oftener— Not so vitally—
 A little  East of  Jordan, Evangelists record, A  Gymnast and an  Angel Did wrestle long and hard— Till morning touching mountain— And  Jacob, waxing strong, The  Angel begged permission To  Breakfast—to return— Not so, said cunning  Jacob!" I will not let thee go Except thou bless me"— Stranger! The which acceded to— Light swung the silver fleeces" Peniel"  Hills beyond, And the bewildered  Gymnast Found he had worsted  God!
My  Garden—like the  Beach— Denotes there be—a  Sea— That's  Summer— Such as  These—the  Pearls She fetches—such as  Me
A  Route of  Evanescence With a revolving  Wheel-- A  Resonance of  Emerald-- A  Rush of  Cochineal-- And every  Blossom on the  Bush Adjusts its tumbled  Head-- The mail from  Tunis, probably, An easy  Morning's  Ride--
 It makes no difference abroad— The  Seasons—fit—the same— The  Mornings blossom into  Noons— And split their  Pods of  Flame— Wild flowers—kindle in the  Woods— The  Brooks slam—all the  Day— No  Black bird bates his  Banjo— For passing  Calvary— Auto da  Fe—and  Judgment— Are nothing to the  Bee— His separation from  His  Rose— To  Him—sums  Misery—
 The  Daisy follows soft the  Sun— And when his golden walk is done— Sits shyly at his feet— He—waking—finds the flower there— Wherefore— Marauder—art thou here? Because,  Sir, love is sweet! We are the  Flower— Thou the  Sun! Forgive us, if as days decline— We nearer steal to  Thee! Enamored of the parting  West— The peace—the flight—the  Amethyst— Night's possibility!
 You know that  Portrait in the  Moon— So tell me who 'tis like— The very  Brow—the stooping eyes— A fog for— Say— Whose  Sake? The very  Pattern of the  Cheek— It varies—in the  Chin— But— Ishmael—since we met—'tis long— And fashions—intervene— When  Moon's at full—' Tis  Thou— I say— My lips just hold the name— When crescent— Thou art worn— I note— But—there—the  Golden  Same— And when— Some  Night— Bold—slashing  Clouds Cut  Thee away from  Me— That's easier—than the other film That glazes  Holiday—
 We dream—it is good we are dreaming— It would hurt us—were we awake— But since it is playing—kill us, And we are playing—shriek— What harm?  Men die—externally— It is a truth—of  Blood— But we—are dying in  Drama— And  Drama—is never dead— Cautious— We jar each other— And either—open the eyes— Lest the  Phantasm—prove the  Mistake— And the livid  Surprise Cool us to  Shafts of  Granite— With just an  Age—and  Name— And perhaps a phrase in  Egyptian— It's prudenter—to dream—
How good—to be alive!   How infinite—to be  Alive—two-fold— The  Birth  I had  And this—besides, in— Thee!
To die—takes just a little while— They say it doesn't hurt— It's only fainter—by degrees— And then—it's out of sight— A darker  Ribbon—for a  Day— A  Crape upon the  Hat— And then the pretty sunshine comes— And helps us to forget— The absent—mystic—creature— That but for love of us— Had gone to sleep—that soundest time— Without the weariness—
 I got so  I could take his name— Without— Tremendous gain— That  Stop-sensation—on my  Soul— And  Thunder—in the  Room— I got so  I could walk across That  Angle in the floor, Where he turned so, and  I turned—how— And all our  Sinew tore— I got so  I could stir the  Box— In which his letters grew Without that forcing, in my breath— As  Staples—driven through— Could dimly recollect a  Grace— I think, they call it " God"— Renowned to ease  Extremity— When  Formula, had failed— And shape my  Hands— Petition's way, Tho' ignorant of a word That  Ordination—utters— My  Business, with the  Cloud, If any  Power behind it, be, Not subject to  Despair— It care, in some remoter way, For so minute affair As  Misery— Itself, too vast, for interrupting—more—
 For every  Bird a  Nest— Wherefore in timid quest Some little  Wren goes seeking round— Wherefore when boughs are free— Households in every tree— Pilgrim be found? Perhaps a home too high— Ah  Aristocracy! The little  Wren desires— Perhaps of twig so fine— Of twine e'en superfine, Her pride aspires— The  Lark is not ashamed To build upon the ground Her modest house— Yet who of all the throng Dancing around the sun Does so rejoice?
 Glee— The great storm is over— Four—have recovered the  Land— Forty—gone down together— Into the boiling  Sand— Ring—for the  Scant  Salvation— Toll—for the bonnie  Souls— Neighbor—and friend—and  Bridegroom— Spinning upon the  Shoals— How they will tell the  Story— When  Winter shake the  Door— Till the  Children urge— But the  Forty— Did they—come back no more? Then a softness—suffuse the  Story— And a silence—the  Teller's eye— And the  Children—no further question— And only the  Sea—reply—
 Angels, in the early morning May be seen the  Dews among, Stooping—plucking—smiling&m dash;flying— Do the  Buds to them belong? Angels, when the sun is hottest May be seen the sands among, Stooping—plucking—sighing&m dash;flying— Parched the flowers they bear along.
" Unto  Me?"  I do not know you— Where may be your  House?" I am  Jesus— Late of  Judea— Now—of  Paradise"— Wagons—have you—to convey me? This is far from  Thence—" Arms of  Mine—sufficient  Phaeton— Trust  Omnipotence"— I am spotted—" I am  Pardon"— I am small—" The  Least Is esteemed in  Heaven the  Chiefest— Occupy my  House"—
A lane of  Yellow led the eye Unto a  Purple  Wood Whose soft inhabitants to be Surpasses solitude If  Bird the silence contradict Or flower presume to show In that low summer of the  West Impossible to know -
God gave a loaf to every bird, But just a crumb to me; I dare not eat it, though  I starve,-- My poignant luxury To own it, touch it, prove the feat That made the pellet mine,-- Too happy in my sparrow chance For ampler coveting. It might be famine all around, I could not miss an ear, Such plenty smiles upon my board, My garner shows so fair. I wonder how the rich may feel,-- An  Indiaman--an  Earl? I deem that  I with but a crumb Am sovereign of them all.
 We do not play on  Graves— Because there isn't  Room— Besides—it isn't even—it slants And  People come— And put a  Flower on it— And hang their faces so— We're fearing that their  Hearts will drop— And crush our pretty play— And so we move as far As  Enemies—away— Just looking round to see how far It is— Occasionally—
 How the  Waters closed above  Him We shall never know— How  He stretched  His  Anguish to us That—is covered too— Spreads the  Pond  Her  Base of  Lilies Bold above the  Boy Whose unclaimed  Hat and  Jacket Sum the  History—
 The  Flower must not blame the  Bee— That seeketh his felicity Too often at her door— But teach the  Footman from  Vevay— Mistress is "not at home"—to say— To people—any more!
 The  Bible is an antique  Volume— Written by faded men At the suggestion of  Holy  Spectres— Subjects— Bethlehem&mdash ; Eden—the ancient  Homestead— Satan—the  Brigadier— Judas—the  Great  Defaulter— David—the  Troubador— Sin—a distinguished  Precipice Others must resist— Boys that "believe" are very lonesome— Other  Boys are "lost"— Had but the  Tale a warbling  Teller— All the  Boys would come— Orpheus'  Sermon captivated— It did not condemn—
 We thirst at first—'tis  Nature's  Act— And later—when we die— A little  Water supplicate— Of fingers going by— It intimates the finer want— Whose adequate supply Is that  Great  Water in the  West— Termed  Immortality—
 I never told the buried gold Upon the hill—that lies— I saw the sun—his plunder done Crouch low to guard his prize. He stood as near As stood you here— A pace had been between— Did but a snake bisect the brake My life had forfeit been. That was a wondrous booty— I hope 'twas honest gained. Those were the fairest ingots That ever kissed the spade! Whether to keep the secret— Whether to reveal— Whether as  I ponder Kidd will sudden sail— Could a shrewd advise me We might e'en divide— Should a shrewd betray me— Atropos decide!
 A  Solemn thing within the  Soul To feel itself get ripe— And golden hang—while farther up— The  Maker's  Ladders stop— And in the  Orchard far below— You hear a  Being—drop— A  Wonderful—to feel the  Sun Still toiling at the  Cheek You thought was finished— Cool of eye, and critical of  Work— He shifts the stem—a little— To give your  Core—a look— But solemnest—to know Your chance in  Harvest moves A little nearer— Every  Sun The  Single—to some lives.
 I reason,  Earth is short— And  Anguish—absolute— And many hurt, But, what of that? I reason, we could die— The best  Vitality Cannot excel  Decay, But, what of that? I reason, that in  Heaven— Somehow, it will be even— Some new  Equation, given— But, what of that?
 Except to  Heaven, she is nought. Except for  Angels—lone. Except to some wide-wandering  Bee A flower superfluous blown. Except for winds—provincial. Except by  Butterflies Unnoticed as a single dew That on the  Acre lies. The smallest  Housewife in the grass, Yet take her from the  Lawn And somebody has lost the face That made  Existence— Home!
 They called me to the  Window, for" ' Twas  Sunset"— Some one said— I only saw a  Sapphire  Farm— And just a  Single  Herd— Of  Opal  Cattle—feeding far Upon so vain a  Hill— As even while  I looked—dissolved— Nor  Cattle were—nor  Soil— But in their stead—a  Sea—displayed— And  Ships—of such a size As  Crew of  Mountains—could afford— And  Decks—to seat the skies— This—too—the  Showman rubbed away— And when  I looked again— Nor  Farm—nor  Opal  Herd—was there— Nor  Mediterranean—
 She hideth  Her the last— And is the first, to rise— Her  Night doth hardly recompense The  Closing of  Her eyes— She doth  Her  Purple  Work— And putteth  Her away In low  Apartments in the  Sod - As worthily as  We. To imitate her life As impotent would be As make of  Our imperfect  Mints, The  Julep—of the  Bee—
 Delayed till she had ceased to know— Delayed till in its vest of snow Her loving bosom lay— An hour behind the fleeting breath— Later by just an hour than  Death— Oh lagging  Yesterday! Could she have guessed that it would be— Could but a crier of the joy Have climbed the distant hill— Had not the bliss so slow a pace Who knows but this surrendered face Were undefeated still? Oh if there may departing be Any forgot by  Victory In her imperial round— Show them this meek appareled thing That could not stop to be a king— Doubtful if it be crowned!
 Me from  Myself—to banish— Had  I  Art— Impregnable my  Fortress Unto  All  Heart— But since  Myself—assault  Me— How have  I peace Except by subjugating Consciousness? And since  We're mutual  Monarch How this be Except by  Abdication— Me—of  Me?
 The  Color of the  Grave is  Green— The  Outer  Grave— I mean— You would not know it from the  Field— Except it own a  Stone— To help the fond—to find it— Too infinite asleep To stop and tell them where it is— But just a  Daisy—deep— The  Color of the  Grave is white— The outer  Grave— I mean— You would not know it from the  Drifts— In  Winter—till the  Sun— Has furrowed out the  Aisles— Then—higher than the  Land The little  Dwelling  Houses rise Where each—has left a friend— The  Color of the  Grave within— The  Duplicate— I mean— Not all the  Snows could make it white— Not all the  Summers— Green— You've seen the  Color—maybe— Upon a  Bonnet bound— When that you met it with before— The  Ferret—cannot find—
 Don't put up my  Thread and  Needle— I'll begin to  Sew When the  Birds begin to whistle— Better  Stitches—so— These were bent—my sight got crooked— When my mind—is plain I'll do seams—a  Queen's endeavor Would not blush to own— Hems—too fine for  Lady's tracing To the sightless  Knot— Tucks—of dainty interspersion— Like a dotted  Dot— Leave my  Needle in the furrow— Where  I put it down— I can make the zigzag stitches Straight—when  I am strong— Till then—dreaming  I am sewing Fetch the seam  I missed— Closer—so  I—at my sleeping— Still surmise  I stitch—
 You constituted  Time— I deemed  Eternity A  Revelation of  Yourself—' Twas therefore  Deity The  Absolute—removed The  Relative away— That  I unto  Himself adjust My slow idolatry—
 Could— I do more—for  Thee— Wert  Thou a  Bumble  Bee— Since for the  Queen, have  I— Nought but  Bouquet?
 Distrustful of the  Gentian— And just to turn away, The fluttering of her fringes Child my perfidy— Weary for my————— I will singing go— I shall not feel the sleet—then— I shall not fear the snow. Flees so the phantom meadow Before the breathless  Bee— So bubble brooks in deserts On  Ears that dying lie— Burn so the  Evening  Spires To  Eyes that  Closing go— Hangs so distant  Heaven— To a hand below.
 My  Portion is  Defeat—today— A paler luck than  Victory— Less  Paeans—fewer  Bells— The  Drums don't follow  Me—with tunes— Defeat—a somewhat slower—means— More  Arduous than  Balls—' Tis populous with  Bone and stain— And  Men too straight to stoop again—, And  Piles of solid  Moan— And  Chips of  Blank—in  Boyish  Eyes— And scraps of  Prayer— And  Death's surprise, Stamped visible—in  Stone— There's somewhat prouder, over there— The  Trumpets tell it to the  Air— How different  Victory To  Him who has it—and the  One Who to have had it, would have been Contender—to die—
After a hundred years Nobody knows the place,-- Agony, that enacted there, Motionless as peace. Weeds triumphant ranged, Strangers strolled and spelled At the lone orthography Of the elder dead. Winds of summer fields Recollect the way,-- Instinct picking up the key Dropped by memory.
 It will be  Summer—eventually. Ladies—with parasols— Sauntering  Gentlemen—with  Canes— And little  Girls—with  Dolls— Will tint the pallid landscape— As 'twere a bright  Bouquet— Thro' drifted deep, in  Parian— The  Village lies—today— The  Lilacs—bending many a year— Will sway with purple load— The  Bees—will not despise the tune— Their  Forefathers—have hummed— The  Wild  Rose—redden in the  Bog— The  Aster—on the  Hill Her everlasting fashion—set— And  Covenant  Gentians—frill— Till  Summer folds her miracle— As  Women—do—their  Gown— Of  Priests—adjust the  Symbols— When  Sacrament—is done—
 I meant to find  Her when  I came— Death—had the same design— But the  Success—was  His—it seems— And the  Surrender— Mine— I meant to tell  Her how  I longed For just this single time— But  Death had told  Her so the first— And she had past, with  Him— To wander—now—is my  Repose— To rest— To rest would be A privilege of  Hurricane To  Memory—and  Me.
 Once more, my now bewildered  Dove Bestirs her puzzled wings Once more her mistress, on the deep Her troubled question flings— Thrice to the floating casement The  Patriarch's bird returned, Courage!  My brave  Columba! There may yet be  Land!
 The  Missing  All—prevented  Me From missing minor  Things. If nothing larger than a  World's Departure from a  Hinge— Or  Sun's extinction, be observed—' Twas not so large that  I Could lift my  Forehead from my work For  Curiosity.
 Her smile was shaped like other smiles— The  Dimples ran along— And still it hurt you, as some  Bird Did hoist herself, to sing, Then recollect a  Ball, she got— And hold upon the  Twig, Convulsive, while the  Music broke— Like  Beads—among the  Bog—
 To own the  Art within the  Soul The  Soul to entertain With  Silence as a  Company And  Festival maintain Is an unfurnished  Circumstance Possession is to  One As an  Estate perpetual Or a reduceless  Mine.
 Till  Death—is narrow  Loving— The scantest  Heart extant Will hold you till your privilege Of  Finiteness—be spent— But  He whose loss procures you Such  Destitution that Your  Life too abject for itself Thenceforward imitate— Until— Resemblance perfect— Yourself, for  His pursuit Delight of  Nature—abdicate— Exhibit  Love—somewhat—
 Fitter to see  Him,  I may be For the long  Hindrance— Grace—to  Me— With  Summers, and with  Winters, grow, Some passing  Year— A trait bestow To make  Me fairest of the  Earth— The  Waiting—then—will seem so worth I shall impute with half a pain The blame that  I was chosen—then— Time to anticipate  His  Gaze— It's first— Delight—and then— Surprise— The turning o'er and o'er my face For  Evidence it be the  Grace— He left behind  One  Day— So less He seek  Conviction,  That—be  This— I only must not grow so new That  He'll mistake—and ask for me Of me—when first unto the  Door I go—to  Elsewhere go no more— I only must not change so fair He'll sigh—" The  Other— She—is  Where?" The  Love, tho', will array me right I shall be perfect—in  His sight— If  He perceive the other  Truth— Upon an  Excellenter  Youth— How sweet  I shall not lack in  Vain— But gain—thro' loss— Through  Grief—obtain— The  Beauty that reward  Him best— The  Beauty of  Demand—at  Rest—
 God is a distant—stately  Lover— Woos, as  He states us—by  His  Son— Verily, a  Vicarious  Courtship—" Miles", and " Priscilla", were such an  One— But, lest the  Soul—like fair " Priscilla" Choose the  Envoy—and spurn the  Groom— Vouches, with hyperbolic archness—" Miles", and " John  Alden" were  Synonym—
Pink, small, and punctual, Aromatic, low, Covert in  April, Candid in  May,  Dear to the moss, Known by the knoll, Next to the robin In every human soul.  Bold little beauty, Bedecked with thee, Nature forswears Antiquity.
This is the land the sunset washes, These are the banks of the  Yellow  Sea; Where it rose, or whither it rushes, These are the western mystery! Night after night her purple traffic Strews the landing with opal bales; Merchantmen poise upon horizons, Dip, and vanish with fairy sails.
 Color— Caste— Denomination— These—are  Time's  Affair— Death's diviner  Classifying Does not know they are— As in sleep— All  Hue forgotten— Tenets—put behind— Death's large— Democratic fingers Rub away the  Brand— If  Circassian— He is careless— If  He put away Chrysalis of  Blonde—or  Umber— Equal  Butterfly— They emerge from  His  Obscuring— What  Death—knows so well— Our minuter intuitions— Deem unplausible—
 Conscious am  I in my  Chamber, Of a shapeless friend— He doth not attest by  Posture— Nor  Confirm—by  Word— Neither  Place—need  I present  Him— Fitter  Courtesy Hospitable intuition Of  His  Company— Presence—is  His furthest license— Neither  He to  Me Nor  Myself to  Him—by  Accent— Forfeit  Probity— Weariness of  Him, were quainter Than  Monotony Knew a  Particle—of  Space's Vast  Society Neither if  He visit  Other— Do  He dwell—or  Nay—know  I— But  Instinct esteem  Him Immortality—
I had been hungry all the years- My noon had come, to dine- I, trembling, drew the table near And touched the curious wine.' T was this on tables  I had seen When turning, hungry, lone, I looked in windows, for the wealth I could not hope to own. I did not know the ample bread,' T was so unlike the crumb The birds and  I had often shared In  Nature's dining-room. The plenty hurt me, 't was so new,-- Myself felt ill and odd, As berry of a mountain bush Transplanted to the road. Nor was  I hungry; so  I found That hunger was a way Of persons outside windows, The entering takes away.
 You'll know  Her—by  Her  Foot— The smallest  Gamboge  Hand With  Fingers—where the  Toes should be— Would more affront the  Sand— Than this  Quaint  Creature's  Boot— Adjusted by a  Stern— Without a  Button— I could vouch— Unto a  Velvet  Limb— You'll know  Her—by  Her  Vest— Tight fitting— Orange— Brown— Inside a  Jacket duller— She wore when she was born— Her  Cap is small—and snug— Constructed for the  Winds— She'd pass for  Barehead—short way off— But as  She  Closer stands— So finer 'tis than  Wool— You cannot feel the  Seam— Nor is it  Clasped unto of  Band— Nor held upon—of  Brim— You'll know  Her—by  Her  Voice— At first—a doubtful  Tone— A sweet endeavor—but as  March To  April—hurries on— She squanders on your  Ear Such  Arguments of  Pearl— You beg the  Robin in your  Brain To keep the other—still—
 Dreams—are well—but  Waking's better, If  One wake at morn— If  One wake at  Midnight—better— Dreaming—of the  Dawn— Sweeter—the  Surmising  Robins— Never gladdened  Tree— Than a  Solid  Dawn—confronting— Leading to no  Day—
 How many  Flowers fail in  Wood— Or perish from the  Hill— Without the privilege to know That they are  Beautiful— How many cast a nameless  Pod Upon the nearest  Breeze— Unconscious of the  Scarlet  Freight— It bear to  Other  Eyes—
To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee, One clover, and a bee. And revery. The revery alone will do, If bees are few.
 Uncertain lease—develops lustre On  Time Uncertain  Grasp, appreciation Of  Sum— The shorter  Fate—is oftener the chiefest Because Inheritors upon a tenure Prize—
 Better—than  Music!  For  I—who heard it— I was used—to the  Birds—before— This—was different—' Twas  Translation— Of all tunes  I knew—and more—' Twasn't contained—like other stanza— No one could play it—the second time— But the  Composer—perfect  Mozart— Perish with him—that  Keyless  Rhyme! So— Children—told how  Brooks in  Eden— Bubbled a better— Melody— Quaintly infer— Eve's great surrender— Urging the feet—that would—not—fly— Children—matured—are wiser—mostly— Eden—a legend—dimly told— Eve—and the  Anguish— Grandame's story— But— I was telling a tune— I heard— Not such a strain—the  Church—baptizes— When the last  Saint—goes up the  Aisles— Not such a stanza splits the silence— When the  Redemption strikes her  Bells— Let me not spill—its smallest cadence— Humming—for promise—when alone— Humming—until my faint  Rehearsal— Drop into tune—around the  Throne—
 He strained my faith— Did he find it supple? Shook my strong trust— Did it then—yield? Hurled my belief— But—did he shatter—it? Racked—with suspense— Not a nerve failed! Wrung me—with  Anguish— But  I never doubted him—' Tho' for what wrong He did never say— Stabbed—while  I sued His sweet forgiveness— Jesus—it's your little " John"! Don't you know—me?
Not " Revelation"—'tis—that waits, But our unfurnished eyes—
My nosegays are for captives;    Dim, long-expectant eyes, Fingers denied the plucking,    Patient till paradise. To such, if they should whisper    Of morning and the moor, They bear no other errand,    And  I, no other prayer.
A great  Hope fell You heard no noise The  Ruin was within Oh cunning wreck that told no tale And let no  Witness in The mind was built for mighty  Freight For dread occasion planned How often foundering at  Sea Ostensibly, on  Land A not admitting of the wound Until it grew so wide That all my  Life had entered it And there were troughs beside A closing of the simple lid That opened to the sun Until the tender  Carpenter Perpetual nail it down -
 Flowers— Well—if anybody Can the ecstasy define— Half a transport—half a trouble— With which flowers humble men: Anybody find the fountain From which floods so contra flow— I will give him all the  Daisies Which upon the hillside blow. Too much pathos in their faces For a simple breast like mine— Butterflies from  St.  Domingo Cruising round the purple line— Have a system of aesthetics— Far superior to mine.
 The  Only  News  I know Is  Bulletins all  Day From  Immortality. The  Only  Shows  I see— Tomorrow and  Today— Perchance  Eternity— The  Only  One  I meet Is  God— The  Only  Street— Existence— This traversed If  Other  News there be— Or  Admirable  Show— I'll tell it  You—
 Mama never forgets her birds, Though in another tree— She looks down just as often And just as tenderly As when her little mortal nest With cunning care she wove— If either of her "sparrows fall," She "notices," above.
 Sweet, to have had them lost For news that they be saved— The nearer they departed  Us The nearer they, restored, Shall stand to  Our  Right  Hand— Most precious and the  Dead— Next precious Those that rose to go— Then thought of  Us, and stayed.
 My friend must be a  Bird— Because it flies!  Mortal, my friend must be, Because it dies!  Barbs has it, like a  Bee!  Ah, curious friend!  Thou puzzlest me!
 I'm "wife"— I've finished that— That other state— I'm  Czar— I'm " Woman" now— It's safer so— How odd the  Girl's life looks Behind this soft  Eclipse— I think that  Earth feels so To folks in  Heaven—now— This being comfort—then That other kind—was pain— But why compare? I'm " Wife"!  Stop there!
I measure every  Grief  I meet With narrow, probing,  Eyes-- I wonder if  It weighs like  Mine-- Or has an  Easier size. I wonder if  They bore it long-- Or did it just begin-- I could not tell the  Date of  Mine-- It feels so old a pain-- I wonder if it hurts to live-- And if  They have to try-- And whether--could  They choose between-- It would not be--to die-- I note that  Some--gone patient long-- At length, renew their smile--  An imitation of a  Light That has so little  Oil-- I wonder if when  Years have piled--  Some  Thousands--on the  Harm--  That hurt them early--such a lapse Could give them any  Balm--  Or would they go on aching still Through  Centuries of  Nerve-- Enlightened to a larger  Pain--  In  Contrast with the  Love--  The  Grieved--are many-- I am told--  There is the various  Cause--  Death--is but one--and comes but once--  And only nails the eyes--  There's  Grief of  Want--and grief of  Cold--  A sort they call " Despair"--  There's  Banishment from native  Eyes-- In  Sight of  Native  Air--  And though  I may not guess the kind--  Correctly--yet to me A piercing  Comfort it affords In passing  Calvary--  To note the fashions--of the  Cross--  And how they're mostly worn--  Still fascinated to presume That  Some--are like  My  Own--
 The  Manner of its  Death When  Certain it must die—' Tis deemed a privilege to choose—' Twas  Major  Andre's  Way— When  Choice of  Life—is past— There yet remains a  Love Its little  Fate to stipulate— How small in those who live— The  Miracle to tease With  Bable of the styles— How "they are  Dying mostly—now"— And  Customs at " St.  James"!
 Cocoon above!  Cocoon below! Stealthy  Cocoon, why hide you so What all the world suspect? An hour, and gay on every tree Your secret, perched in ecstasy Defies imprisonment! An hour in  Chrysalis to pass, Then gay above receding grass A  Butterfly to go! A moment to interrogate, Then wiser than a " Surrogate," The  Universe to know!
 One  Year ago—jots what? God—spell the word!  I—can't— Was't  Grace?  Not that— Was't  Glory?  That—will do— Spell slower— Glory— Such  Anniversary shall be— Sometimes—not often—in  Eternity— When farther  Parted, than the  Common  Woe— Look—feed upon each other's faces—so— In doubtful meal, if it be possible  Their  Banquet's true— I tasted—careless—then— I did not know the  Wine  Came once a  World— Did you?  Oh, had you told me so— This  Thirst would blister—easier—now— You said it hurt you—most— Mine—was an  Acorn's  Breast— And could not know how fondness grew  In  Shaggier  Vest— Perhaps— I couldn't— But, had you looked in— A  Giant—eye to eye with you, had been— No  Acorn—then— So— Twelve months ago— We breathed— Then dropped the  Air— Which bore it best?  Was this—the patientest— Because it was a  Child, you know— And could not value— Air?  If to be " Elder"—mean most pain— I'm old enough, today,  I'm certain—then— As old as thee—how soon?  One— Birthday more—or  Ten?  Let me—choose!  Ah,  Sir,  None!
 Two swimmers wrestled on the spar— Until the morning sun— When  One—turned smiling to the land— Oh  God! the  Other  One! The stray ships—passing— Spied a face— Upon the waters borne— With eyes in death—still begging raised— And hands—beseeching—thrown!
 Of  Being is a  Bird The likest to the  Down An  Easy  Breeze do put afloat The  General  Heavens—upon— It soars—and shifts—and whirls— And measures with the  Clouds In easy—even—dazzling pace— No different the  Birds— Except a  Wake of  Music Accompany their feet— As did the  Down emit a  Tune— For  Ecstasy—of it
 As  Children bid the  Guest " Good  Night" And then reluctant turn— My flowers raise their pretty lips— Then put their nightgowns on. As children caper when they wake Merry that it is  Morn— My flowers from a hundred cribs Will peep, and prance again.
Years  I had been from home, And now, before the door I dared not open, lest a face I never saw before  Stare vacant into mine And ask my business there. My business, - just a life  I left, Was such still dwelling there?  I fumbled at my nerve, I scanned the windows near; The silence like an ocean rolled, And broke against my ear.  I laughed a wooden laugh That  I could fear a door, Who danger and the dead had faced, But never quaked before.  I fitted to the latch My hand, with trembling care, Lest back the awful door should spring, And leave me standing there.  I moved my fingers off As cautiously as glass, And held my ears, and like a thief Fled gasping from the house.
 Although  I put away his life— An  Ornament too grand For  Forehead low as mine, to wear, This might have been the  Hand That sowed the flower, he preferred— Or smoothed a homely pain, Or pushed the pebble from his path— Or played his chosen tune— On  Lute the least—the latest— But just his  Ear could know That whatsoe'er delighted it, I never would let go— The foot to bear his errand— A little  Boot  I know— Would leap abroad like  Antelope— With just the grant to do— His weariest  Commandment— A sweeter to obey, Than " Hide and  Seek"— Or skip to  Flutes— Or all  Day, chase the  Bee— Your  Servant,  Sir, will weary— The  Surgeon, will not come— The  World, will have its own—to do— The  Dust, will vex your  Fame— The  Cold will force your tightest door Some  February  Day, But say my apron bring the sticks To make your  Cottage gay— That  I may take that promise To  Paradise, with me— To teach the  Angels, avarice, You,  Sir, taught first—to me.
They dropped like flakes, they dropped like stars,    Like petals from a rose, When suddenly across the lune    A wind with fingers goes. They perished in the seamless grass,--    No eye could find the place; But  God on his repealless list    Can summon every face
 The  Loneliness  One dare not sound— And would as soon surmise As in its  Grave go plumbing To ascertain the size— The  Loneliness whose worst alarm Is lest itself should see— And perish from before itself For just a scrutiny— The  Horror not to be surveyed— But skirted in the  Dark— With  Consciousness suspended— And  Being under  Lock— I fear me this—is  Loneliness— The  Maker of the soul Its  Caverns and its  Corridors Illuminate—or seal—
 How the old  Mountains drip with  Sunset How the  Hemlocks burn— How the  Dun  Brake is draped in  Cinder By the  Wizard  Sun— How the old  Steeples hand the  Scarlet Till the  Ball is full— Have  I the lip of the  Flamingo That  I dare to tell? Then, how the  Fire ebbs like  Billows— Touching all the  Grass With a departing— Sapphire—feature—  As a  Duchess passed— How a small  Dusk crawls on the  Village Till the  Houses blot And the odd  Flambeau, no men carry Glimmer on the  Street— How it is  Night—in  Nest and  Kennel— And where was the  Wood— Just a  Dome of  Abyss is  Bowing Into  Solitude— These are the  Visions flitted  Guido— Titian—never told— Domenichino dropped his pencil— Paralyzed, with  Gold—
 If  I should cease to bring a  Rose Upon a festal day,' Twill be because beyond the  Rose I have been called away— If  I should cease to take the names My buds commemorate—' Twill be because  Death's finger Claps my murmuring lip!
 It bloomed and dropt, a  Single  Noon— The  Flower—distinct and  Red— I, passing, thought another  Noon Another in its stead Will equal glow, and thought no  More But came another  Day To find the  Species disappeared— The  Same  Locality— The  Sun in place—no other fraud On  Nature's perfect  Sum— Had  I but lingered  Yesterday— Was my retrieveless blame— Much  Flowers of this and further  Zones Have perished in my  Hands For seeking its  Resemblance— But unapproached it stands— The single  Flower of the  Earth That  I, in passing by Unconscious was— Great  Nature's  Face Passed infinite by  Me—
If you were coming in the fall, I'd brush the summer by With half a smile and half a spum, As housewives do a fly. If  I could see you in a year, I'd wind the months in balls, And put them each in separate drawers, Until their time befalls. If only centuries delayed, I'd count them on my hand, Subtracting till my fingers dropped Into  Van  Diemen's land. If certain, when this life was out, That yours and mine should be, I'd toss it yonder like a rind, And taste eternity. But now, all ignorant of the length Of time's uncertain wing, It goads me, like the goblin bee, That will not state its sting.
The sky is low, the clouds are mean, A travelling flake of snow Across a barn or through a rut Debates if it will go. A narrow wind complains all day How some one treated him; Nature, like us, is sometimes caught Without her diadem.
 We outgrow love, like other things And put it in the  Drawer— Till it an  Antique fashion shows— Like  Costumes  Grandsires wore.
 Delight is as the flight— Or in the  Ratio of it, As the  Schools would say— The  Rainbow's way— A  Skein Flung colored, after  Rain, Would suit as bright, Except that flight Were  Aliment—" If it would last" I asked the  East, When that  Bent  Stripe Struck up my childish Firmament— And  I, for glee, Took  Rainbows, as the common way, And empty  Skies The  Eccentricity— And so with  Lives— And so with  Butterflies— Seen magic—through the fright That they will cheat the sight— And  Dower latitudes far on— Some sudden morn— Our portion—in the fashion— Done—
" Why do  I love"  You,  Sir? Because— The  Wind does not require the  Grass To answer— Wherefore when  He pass She cannot keep  Her place. Because  He knows—and Do not  You— And  We know not— Enough for  Us The  Wisdom it be so— The  Lightning—never asked an  Eye Wherefore it shut—when  He was by— Because  He knows it cannot speak— And reasons not contained—— Of  Talk— There be—preferred by  Daintier  Folk— The  Sunrise— Sire—compelleth  Me— Because  He's  Sunrise—and  I see— Therefore— Then— I love  Thee—
 Sleep is supposed to be By souls of sanity The shutting of the eye. Sleep is the station grand Down which, on either hand The hosts of witness stand! Morn is supposed to be By people of degree The breaking of the  Day. Morning has not occurred! That shall  Aurora be— East of  Eternity— One with the banner gay— One in the red array— That is the break of  Day!
 Snow beneath whose chilly softness Some that never lay Make their first  Repose this  Winter I admonish  Thee Blanket  Wealthier the  Neighbor We so new bestow Than thine acclimated  Creature Wilt  Thou,  Austere  Snow?
 We miss  Her, not because  We see— The  Absence of an  Eye— Except its  Mind accompany Abridge  Society As slightly as the  Routes of  Stars— Ourselves—asleep below— We know that their superior  Eyes Include  Us—as they go—
It struck me every day    The lightning was as new As if the cloud that instant slit    And let the fire through. It burned me in the night,    It blistered in my dream; It sickened fresh upon my sight    With every morning's beam. I thought that storm was brief,--    The maddest, quickest by; But  Nature lost the date of this,    And left it in the sky.
 I asked no other thing— No other—was denied— I offered  Being—for it— The  Mighty  Merchant sneered— Brazil?  He twirled a  Button— Without a glance my way—" But— Madam—is there nothing else— That  We can show— Today?"
 What is—" Paradise"— Who live there— Are they " Farmers"— Do they "hoe"— Do they know that this is " Amherst"— And that  I—am coming—too— Do they wear "new shoes"—in " Eden"— Is it always pleasant—there— Won't they scold us—when we're homesick— Or tell  God—how cross we are— You are sure there's such a person As "a  Father"—in the sky— So if  I get lost—there—ever— Or do what the  Nurse calls "die"— I shan't walk the " Jasper"—barefoot— Ransomed folks—won't laugh at me— Maybe—" Eden" a'n't so lonesome As  New  England used to be!
 The  Winters are so short— I'm hardly justified In sending all the  Birds away— And moving into  Pod— Myself—for scarcely settled— The  Phoebes have begun— And then—it's time to strike my  Tent— And open  House—again— It's mostly, interruptions— My  Summer—is despoiled— Because there was a  Winter—once— And al the  Cattle—starved— And so there was a  Deluge— And swept the  World away— But  Ararat's a  Legend—now— And no one credits  Noah—
 I can't tell you—but you feel it— Nor can you tell me— Saints, with ravished slate and pencil Solve our  April  Day! Sweeter than a vanished frolic From a vanished green! Swifter than the hoofs of  Horsemen Round a  Ledge of dream! Modest, let us walk among it With our faces veiled— As they say polite  Archangels Do in meeting  God! Not for me—to prate about it! Not for you—to say To some fashionable  Lady" Charming  April  Day"! Rather— Heaven's " Peter  Parley"! By which  Children slow To sublimer  Recitation Are prepared to go!
 A  Planted  Life—diversified With  Gold and  Silver  Pain To prove the presence of the  Ore In  Particles—'tis when A  Value struggle—it exist— A  Power—will proclaim Although  Annihilation pile Whole  Chaoses on  Him—
Love—is that later  Thing than  Death— More previous—than  Life— Confirms it at its entrance— And Usurps it—of itself— Tastes  Death—the first—to hand the sting The  Second—to its friend— Disarms the little interval— Deposits  Him with  God— Then hovers—an inferior  Guard— Lest this  Beloved  Charge Need—once in an  Eternity— A smaller than the  Large—
 Did we disobey  Him? Just one time! Charged us to forget  Him— But we couldn't learn! Were  Himself—such a  Dunce— What would we—do? Love the dull lad—best— Oh, wouldn't you?
 Always  Mine! No more  Vacation! Term of  Light this  Day begun! Failless as the fair rotation Of the  Seasons and the  Sun. Old the  Grace, but new the  Subjects— Old, indeed, the  East, Yet upon  His  Purple  Programme Every  Dawn, is first.
 Too little way the  House must lie From every  Human  Heart That holds in undisputed  Lease A white inhabitant— Too narrow is the  Right between— Too imminent the chance— Each  Consciousness must emigrate And lose its neighbor once—
 A still— Volcano— Life— That flickered in the night— When it was dark enough to do Without erasing sight— A quiet— Earthquake  Style— Too subtle to suspect By natures this side  Naples— The  North cannot detect The  Solemn— Torrid— Symbol— The lips that never lie— Whose hissing  Corals part—and shut— And  Cities—ooze away—
I taste a liquor never brewed, From tankards scooped in pearl; Not all the vats upon the  Rhine Yield such an alcohol! Inebriate of air am  I, And debauchee of dew, Reeling, through endless summer days, From inns of molten blue. When the landlord turn the drunken bee Out of the foxglove's door, When butterflies renounce their drams, I shall but drink the more! Till seraphs swing their snowy hats, And saints to windows run, To see the little tippler Leaning against the sun!
 I think  I was enchanted When first a sombre  Girl— I read that  Foreign  Lady— The  Dark—felt beautiful— And whether it was noon at night— Or only  Heaven—at  Noon— For very  Lunacy of  Light I had not power to tell— The  Bees—became as  Butterflies— The  Butterflies—as  Swans— Approached—and spurned the narrow  Grass— And just the meanest  Tunes That  Nature murmured to herself To keep herself in  Cheer— I took for  Giants—practising Titanic  Opera— The  Days—to  Mighty  Metres stept— The  Homeliest—adorned As if unto a  Jubilee' Twere suddenly confirmed— I could not have defined the change— Conversion of the  Mind Like  Sanctifying in the  Soul— Is witnessed—not explained—' Twas a  Divine  Insanity— The  Danger to be  Sane Should  I again experience—' Tis  Antidote to turn— To  Tomes of solid  Witchcraft— Magicians be asleep— But  Magic—hath an  Element Like  Deity—to keep—
 In  Winter in my  Room I came upon a  Worm— Pink, lank and warm— But as he was a worm And worms presume Not quite with him at home— Secured him by a string To something neighboring And went along. A  Trifle afterward A thing occurred I'd not believe it if  I heard But state with creeping blood— A snake with mottles rare Surveyed my chamber floor In feature as the worm before But ringed with power— The very string with which I tied him—too When he was mean and new That string was there— I shrank—" How fair you are"! Propitiation's claw—" Afraid," he hissed" Of me"?" No cordiality"— He fathomed me— Then to a  Rhythm  Slim Secreted in his  Form As  Patterns swim Projected him. That time  I flew Both eyes his way Lest he pursue Nor ever ceased to run Till in a distant  Town Towns on from mine I set me down This was a dream.
Because  I could not stop for  Death-  He kindly stopped for me-   The  Carriage held but just  Ourselves-   And  Immortality. We slowly drove-  He knew no haste And  I had put away My labor and my leisure too, For  His  Civility-  We passed the  School, where  Children strove At  Recess- in the  Ring-   We passed the  Fields of  Gazing  Grain-   We passed the  Setting  Sun-  Or rather-  He passed us-  The  Dews drew quivering and chill-  For only  Gossamer, my  Gown-  My  Tippet- only  Tulle-  We paused before a  House that seemed A  Swelling of the  Ground-  The  Roof was scarcely visible-  The  Cornice- in the  Ground-  Since then- 'tis  Centuries- and yet Feels shorter than the  Day I first surmised the  Horses'  Heads  Were toward  Eternity-
 As  One does  Sickness over In convalescent  Mind, His scrutiny of  Chances By blessed  Health obscured— As  One rewalks a  Precipice And whittles at the  Twig That held  Him from  Perdition Sown sidewise in the  Crag A  Custom of the  Soul Far after suffering Identity to question For evidence't has been—
' Tis so appalling—it exhilarates— So over  Horror, it half  Captivates— The  Soul stares after it, secure— A  Sepulchre, fears frost, no more— To scan a  Ghost, is faint— But grappling, conquers it— How easy,  Torment, now— Suspense kept sawing so— The  Truth, is  Bald, and  Cold— But that will hold— If any are not sure— We show them—prayer— But we, who know, Stop hoping, now— Looking at  Death, is  Dying— Just let go the  Breath— And not the pillow at your  Cheek So  Slumbereth— Others,  Can wrestle— Yours, is done— And so of  Woe, bleak dreaded—come, It sets the  Fright at liberty— And  Terror's free— Gay,  Ghastly,  Holiday!
 Some  Rainbow—coming from the  Fair! Some  Vision of the  World  Cashmere— I confidently see! Or else a  Peacock's purple  Train Feather by feather—on the plain Fritters itself away! The dreamy  Butterflies bestir! Lethargic pools resume the whir Of last year's sundered tune! From some old  Fortress on the sun Baronial  Bees—march—one by one— In murmuring platoon! The  Robins stand as thick today As flakes of snow stood yesterday— On fence—and  Roof—and  Twig! The  Orchis binds her feather on For her old lover -  Don the  Sun! Revisiting the  Bog! Without  Commander!  Countless!  Still! The  Regiments of  Wood and  Hill In bright detachment stand! Behold!  Whose  Multitudes are these? The children of whose turbaned seas— Or what  Circassian  Land?
 What if  I say  I shall not wait! What if  I burst the fleshly  Gate— And pass escaped—to thee! What if  I file this  Mortal—off— See where it hurt me— That's enough— And wade in  Liberty! They cannot take me—any more! Dungeons can call—and  Guns implore Unmeaning—now—to me— As laughter—was—an hour ago— Or  Laces—or a  Travelling  Show— Or who died—yesterday!
 A  Shade upon the mind there passes As when on  Noon A  Cloud the mighty  Sun encloses Remembering That some there be too numb to notice Oh  God Why give if  Thou must take away The  Loved?
There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll; How frugal is the chariot That bears a human soul!
 Death is potential to that  Man Who dies—and to his friend— Beyond that—unconspicuous To  Anyone but  God— Of these  Two— God remembers The longest—for the friend— Is integral—and therefore Itself dissolved—of  God—
I started  Early -  Took my  Dog - And visited the  Sea - The  Mermaids in the  Basement Came out to look at me - And  Frigates - in the  Upper  Floor Extended  Hempen  Hands - Presuming  Me to be a  Mouse - Aground - upon the  Sands - But no  Man moved  Me - till the  Tide Went past my simple  Shoe - And past my  Apron - and my  Belt And past my  Bodice - too - And made as  He would eat me up - As wholly as a  Dew Upon a  Dandelion's  Sleeve - And then -  I started - too - And  He -  He followed - close behind - I felt  His  Silver  Heel Upon my  Ankle -  Then my  Shoes Would overflow with  Pearl - Until  We met the  Solid  Town - No  One  He seemed to know - And bowing - with a  Mighty look - At me -  The  Sea withdrew -
 A little bread—a crust—a crumb— A little trust—a demijohn— Can keep the soul alive— Not portly, mind! but breathing—warm— Conscious—as old  Napoleon, The night before the  Crown! A modest lot— A fame petite— A brief  Campaign of sting and sweet Is plenty!  Is enough! A  Sailor's business is the shore! A  Soldier's—balls!  Who asketh more, Must seek the neighboring life!
 A  Death blow is a  Life blow to  Some Who till they died, did not alive become— Who had they lived, had died but when They died,  Vitality begun.
For each ecstatic instant We must an anguish pay In keen and quivering ratio To the ectasty. For each beloved hour Sharp pittances of years, Bitter contested farthings And coffers heaped with tears.
 Dying!  Dying in the night! Won't somebody bring the light So  I can see which way to go Into the everlasting snow? And " Jesus"!  Where is  Jesus gone? They said that  Jesus—always came— Perhaps he doesn't know the  House— This way,  Jesus,  Let him pass! Somebody run to the great gate And see if  Dollie's coming!  Wait! I hear her feet upon the stair! Death won't hurt—now  Dollie's here!
A narrow fellow in the grass Occasionally rides; You may have met him,--did you not, His notice sudden is. The grass divides as with a comb, A spotted shaft is seen; And then it closes at your feet And opens further on. He likes a boggy acre, A floor too cool for corn. Yet when a child, and barefoot, I more than once, at morn, Have passed,  I thought, a whip-lash Unbraiding in the sun,-- When, stooping to secure it, It wrinkled, and was gone. Several of nature's people I know, and they know me; I feel for them a transport Of cordiality; But never met this fellow, Attended or alone, Without a tighter breathing, And zero at the bone.
 The  Murmur of a  Bee A  Witchcraft—yieldeth me— If any ask me why—' Twere easier to die— Than tell— The  Red upon the  Hill Taketh away my will— If anybody sneer— Take care—for  God is here— That's all. The  Breaking of the  Day Addeth to my  Degree— If any ask me how— Artist—who drew me so— Must tell!
